Following our last video, let's start part 5 of the Hyundai series. One autumn day in 1971, on the 7th floor of the Hyundai building in Mugyo-dong, Seoul, representatives from Hyundai, including Ju-yung and Se-yung, sat down with Ford’s American executives and lawyers. Suddenly, a roar from Ju-yung echoed through the room. Hyundai had provided a payment guarantee for 20 billion won—8 billion more than requested—but Ford, doubting their credibility, had secretly sent agents to Korea to investigate Hyundai’s financial status. Ju-yung had discovered this fact. Ju-yung protested strongly through Se-yung's interpretation, and the issue was settled after an apology from the Ford side. However, an even bigger problem arose in the subsequent negotiations. Ford kept changing their tune to avoid sharing technology, and at the last minute, they nitpicked Hyundai’s credit to pressure them into merely assembling Ford cars, effectively bullying them. I will not work with you people. Ju-yung, having bottled up his frustration, finally exploded. Before Se-yung even finished translating his angry outburst, Ju-yung stormed out of the chairman's office. Se-yung delivered the final message to the Ford representatives. We will go on it alone . We will do it our own way. Ultimately , Hyundai’s plan to build a Korean car based on Ford’s technology ended with the cancellation of the joint venture. Just then, the government was pressuring them to develop their own car, threatening to ban parts imports for any company that failed to submit a plan for 73%localization. Ju-yung had no other choice left. Hyundai’s first project, the Cortina, had ended in failure, so he insisted that to overcome this crisis, they needed a proper car of their own. He firmly made this clear to his employees. There was significant opposition to his decision as well. Back then, developing an independent car was like being told to build and sell a spaceship overnight. They needed a budget of at least 40 billion won for development and factory construction, and they had to sell at least 50,000 units to turn a profit. However, the total annual car sales in South Korea—including passenger cars, buses, and trucks—were only about 18,000, with Hyundai accounting for about 4,000 of those. Above all, at the time, Hyundai’s technical level made developing and producing an independent model nearly impossible. Their only experience was five years of assembling Ford cars, meaning they had effectively never designed a single part on their own. It was a hopeless plan by any standard, so even his younger brother joined in to try and stop his independent car development project. Nevertheless, it is said that his determination could not be shaken. Hyundai eventually sent people to the UK, Japan, Mitsubishi, and Italy, which was a kind of study abroad program to learn automotive development technology . With this as a turning point, they entrusted the new car's design and engineering to Italdesign, led by Giorgetto Giugiaro, formed a technical partnership with Mitsubishi of Japan for gasoline transmissions and rear axles, and secured technical agreements with BLMC of the UK for key components like engines, transmissions, and accelerators. That is how Hyundai Motor Company began full-scale independent car development. In 1973, all Hyundai employees staked the company's future on developing the car, but the process was truly tearful. Mitsubishi, with whom they had formed a technical partnership, provided only extremely limited information. So, Hyundai employees began to barely understand Japanese technical terms by interpreting Japanese manuals without any Korean translators or basic resources. It is said that they studied the blueprints day and night without rest. Furthermore, the Hyundai employees who went to the UK to purchase machinery worked all day in the office, took short naps, and went back to work, to the point where they said they were trapped in a Brompton prison cell. The situation for the team members who went to Italy for car body design and engineering was just as poor . Since it was their first time ever seeing an automotive design environment , they couldn't just understand it by looking at it with their own eyes. So, they would memorize what they saw during the day, return to their lodging at night to share it with colleagues, and record what they understood—or didn't—in drawings and notes; that is how the "Assistant Manager Lee's Notebook," written by then-Assistant Manager Lee Chung-koo, came to be. Meanwhile, engineers at the Ulsan plant in Korea diligently polished the assembly skills they had learned from Ford. Finally, in October 1974, just one year and six months after beginning independent development, Hyundai Motor Company succeeded in developing the Pony. This was South Korea's first, the world's 16th, and Asia's second. For reference, the name "Pony" was taken from the English word for a small horse . Hyundai's Pony, which debuted at the Turin Motor Show, surprised many people . This was because no one expected a country like Korea, only 20 years past the war, to develop its own car. The Pony also received high praise because its design was on par with European cars. Thus, even before its launch, it became incredibly popular internationally, with 228 dealers in 62 countries hoping to import it. In December 1975, Hyundai Motor Company built a large-scale plant in Ulsan to begin full-scale production lines. And by 1976, it recorded an astonishing market share of 43.5%. This means that nearly half of all car owners were using the Pony. It is said that there was a bigger reason for the Pony's explosive popularity than the product's quality itself. The national pride of Korea becoming a country that manufactures its own car models played a significant role in the Pony's success. In fact, Ju-yung's strategic business acumen was hidden behind this. Two years before the Pony was even produced, he used radio and newspaper advertisements to promote the fact that Hyundai would develop and launch its own unique model, building anticipation among the public. Government campaigns emphasizing the use of domestic products also contributed to this success. In the early days of advertising the Pony, Hyundai even created commercial songs themed around dreams, rather than information about the car's performance or price. Meanwhile, starting with the export of six Pony cars to Ecuador in South America in July 1976, they expanded their export countries to the Middle East, South America, and Africa. That way, they were able to export 119 vehicles in the first year of exports alone. However, there was a place that was not pleased with the growth of Hyundai Motor Company. It was the United States. In May 1977, U.S. Ambassador to South Korea Richard Sneider requested a meeting with Ju-yung. The two met at the Chosun Hotel in Seoul, and upon meeting Ju-yung, Ambassador Richard Sneider reportedly told him point-blank to give up on independent car development. The atmosphere was so tense that Park Jeong-hong, who was in charge of interpretation at the time, struggled to translate the words, repeatedly clearing his throat. However, the U.S. Ambassador's remarks did not stop there . He said that while Hyundai Motor received praise at the Turin Motor Show , that alone would not be enough to succeed in the automotive business. As you know, don't car companies need to be backed by a production volume of at least 500,000 units? This was a way of demeaning the production capacity, as all of Korea's assembly manufacturers combined at the time could only produce 300,000 units a year, and the U.S. position was that Hyundai's survival was uncertain regardless of their efforts. Furthermore, he tried to persuade him by saying it was impossible to expect a domestic market in Korea, where the per capita income was only a few thousand dollars. It is said that while listening to Ambassador Richard, Ju-yung remained silent throughout the meeting. Then, Ambassador Richard offered a proposal, saying if you give up on independent development, the U.S. government will help you assemble and produce cars under favorable conditions with Ford, GM, or Chrysler, whichever Hyundai prefers. However, they also pressured him, saying that if Hyundai did not accept the restrictions, it might face difficulties not only in the US but in various overseas businesses. In fact, considering Korea’s level at the time , it is said that the US proposal was not a bad one. But Ju-young, who had been listening for a while, first expressed his gratitude for their concern for his business. "However, I must decline the Ambassador's proposal. " It is said that he expressed his refusal straightforwardly like this. The American Ambassador’s expression hardened for a moment, but Ju-young did not waver. Then, Ju-young added the following. If we compare a country to a human body, I believe the roads spread across its territory are like blood vessels, and cars are like the blood circulating through those vessels. Making good cars and supplying them at an affordable price is just like supplying good blood to a human body. The development of the automotive industry carries that much more significant meaning. Korea will soon reach the era of 5,000 dollars in per capita GNP. Even if I pour all the money earned from construction into this and fail, I will never regret it. After hearing Ju-young’s words through the interpreter, it is said that Ambassador Richard could not open his mouth and just stared at him. It was because he was so filled with determination. Thus, Hyundai Motor Company continued its independent automobile development. After launching the Pony 2 in 1982, Hyundai Motor established a local US subsidiary in 1985 and launched another new car, the Excel, in 1986. And in 1987, they sold 260,000 units in the US market alone, recording the number one spot in sales in the US imported compact car market. It would have been a history that would not have existed if Ju-young had accepted Ambassador Richard’s proposal.