There has been a significant loss of life due to the flooding in Nepal. However, it is said that there is a war of words between China and India over this disaster. Why are China and India doing that? Hello. This is Kim Ji-hoon. A truly large-scale flood has occurred in Nepal. And because of this, the damage is growing larger. According to the announcement from Nepal, the death toll has now exceeded 900. There was also damage on the Chinese side. The death toll there has exceeded 16, and there are over 500 missing. Let me briefly explain the overview of the incident. If you go about 50 or 60 km north from Kathmandu, Nepal, there is a mountain called Langtang Lirung. A small river called the Lende Khola flows along the northern slope of this mountain. And this river flows down to become the Trishuli River, flowing toward the south. Naturally, there are villages near the river. There are villages on the Nepali side, and there are also villages on the Chinese side. Since these are villages in a region connecting Nepal and China, they are often used as places for trade. So it is said that there are always lines of trucks going back and forth. It is also a place where customs offices, warehouses, and markets are frequently set up. But this is Nepal, after all. A place that embraces the Himalayas. Because of that, it is also a place where there are many of what we call V-shaped valleys. However, floods occurred consecutively along a stretch of about 72 km of the Trishuli River in this area. The resulting mudflows covered dozens of villages in an instant. According to some, the speed of the water that tore down the first 20 km section was about 193 km/h. So, it covered them in such a short moment that it was practically impossible for people to escape. That is why Nepali officials are saying that this flood will remain one of the greatest disasters in Nepal's modern history. Although this disaster is not yet over, many are already in the process of analyzing why such an event occurred. The first thing that was mentioned was an earthquake. There were reports that a magnitude 5.2 earthquake was observed by US and German monitoring agencies. But the talk going around now is a bit different. Since various analyses are still coming out, we cannot rashly define and talk about it, but the general story being told is as follows. It is that snow, ice, and rocks fell together from a point about 5,000 meters up on the northern slope of Langtang Lirung. And that it just fell from a point about 1,000 meters up. If you think about it, when something falls from a height of about 1,000 meters, especially when it’s a mix of snow, ice, and rocks, it’s hard to even imagine how massive the impact would have been when it hit the ground. So, this was likely felt as an earthquake. The energy generated from that caused the snow and ice to melt rapidly. However, it didn’t just fall all at once; because it was a narrow gorge, it got blocked at some point. It acted like a dam, but eventually, when it gave way, the water that had gathered in the narrow space gushed out explosively all at once. In fact, the high altitudes of the Himalayas are places where snow and ice have remained frozen for thousands of years. And this Himalayan ice fills the gaps between rocks and soil, acting as a kind of glue. This is referred to as permafrost . Recently, there have been reports that temperatures in these high-altitude areas are rising, causing the permafrost to melt. Pointing this out, geologists have been warning that if things continue this way, the likelihood of landslides in mountainous slope areas is extremely high. So, the easy conclusion to jump to is that this is due to climate change, but scientists have not yet linked climate change as the direct cause of this event. This is likely because they believe more precise analysis is needed . Then why are India and China at odds over this incident? In fact, ever since the disaster, Indian media and commentaries have been accusing China of being responsible for exacerbating the situation. A prime example was the article written by Indian geopolitical analyst Brahma Chellaney for Nikkei Asia on August 28th. According to Chellaney, explaining this tragic event solely as a natural disaster only tells half the story. Then who is responsible for the other half? He argues that even if China didn't provide the cause, it is responsible for amplifying it. One of the causes Chellaney points to is the infrastructure projects China has been conducting near Tibet over the past decade. What does this mean? This area is a crucial trade route connecting Nepal and China. Over the past 10 years, China has built various commercial facilities in this region. China had been carrying out infrastructure projects in this valley, such as dams, border facilities, and roads. Ultimately, the goal was to connect a railway from China all the way to Kathmandu. So, the aim was to complete this Himalayan corridor. The problem is that this area is not a flat plain, but a narrow gorge. So, various infrastructure, customs buildings, as well as heavy machinery and construction materials for ongoing projects were all heavily concentrated in one place. Yes. When the flood hit here, the flow that came down wasn't just water, but a debris flow; as it swept up the wreckage of this heavy machinery and buildings along with it, the damage became much greater. Of course, the Chinese side is refuting this. They are claiming there is no scientific evidence. They are saying that these are malicious claims made by the West and India. That could be interpreted that way, as everyone knows China and India are countries that occasionally have disputes over the Himalayas. So, what is interesting is that once this incident occurred, both India and China stepped forward to actively help Nepal. In fact, Nepal initially rejected this. But because the current situation is so dire, they eventually accepted it. Perhaps they judged that both China and India are trying to use this situation as an excuse to exert geopolitical influence over Nepal. Now, this is actually the argument from both sides. However, there is a truly important issue here. It is that when such disasters occurred , the two countries failed to issue early warnings to each other or provide information. In other words, the cooperation system was lacking. Actually, although this disaster originated in Nepal, it moved back and forth between China and Nepal. Therefore, it can be said that it was a transboundary disaster. But this is not the first time such a thing has happened. It has already been repeated several times. It even happened just one year ago. In July 2025, Tibet was the point of origin. A glacial lake formed on a glacier in Tibet, China, drained, causing a massive flood, and eventually there were casualties on both the Nepalese and Chinese sides. Because such issues had been raised in the past, Nepal and China signed an MOU in 2019 to monitor such disasters and share information with each other. The idea was to respond cooperatively if such sudden events occurred. However, according to testimonies from the Nepalese side in 2023, complaints poured out that they were not receiving proper information from either the Chinese or Indian sides. Actually, the Himalayan region should be jointly managed by China, Nepal, and India, but there has been no information sharing between them, and Nepal has been particularly dissatisfied that upstream countries don't properly notify downstream countries when incidents occur. And just three months before this disaster, on May 27, 2026, China and Nepal held another meeting. The Nepalese side requested that more information be provided. However, they did not receive a definitive answer from China at that time. That is not to say that China did not provide any information at all. It’s just that they didn't provide the information that Nepal wanted. The only information China regularly provided to Nepal was limited to precipitation levels. In fact, since Nepal is not a country with highly developed technology, they wanted to rely on China for those aspects. So they asked for more comprehensive information, such as glacial movement, changes in glacial conditions, and avalanche risks, so that they could share it in real-time to evacuate residents quickly during emergencies, but China didn't actually comply. As a result, the disaster governance cooperation system between these countries has not been systemized . I find this aspect to be quite regrettable. I believe many of you were quite shocked to see the videos of water sweeping through the residential areas and people fleeing to escape it. But there is a country where you cannot see these videos. That country is China . It is said that in the beginning, these videos were actually uploaded to China’s internet and social media platforms. But at some point, all the videos disappeared. It is also nearly impossible to get any news about the current status there. Foreign media also report that they cannot enter the area to cover the extent of the damage on the Chinese side. China is currently only stating that there are 16 confirmed deaths and over 500 missing. And about half of them are actually foreigners. But even regarding these foreigners, they only provide statistics by nationality and no detailed information about who these people are. There is also news that about 10 people have been arrested and are being punished for spreading rumors that the actual number of missing and dead is much higher than the official announcement regarding this disaster. This is because the region is Tibet. As you all know, Tibet is a place that is strictly controlled by China. The media is controlled, and it's also extremely difficult for researchers, experts, and scientists to gain access. There are cases where conflicts arise between countries upstream and downstream of international rivers. Conflicts occur for various reasons, such as failing to properly share water resources or using them as a weapon. Looking at this disaster, I’m reminded once again that we need to quickly build a system for how to cooperate and respond together when such disasters occur, rather than just focusing on these conflicts and disputes. Because rivers do not recognize national borders. I pray for the souls of those who lost their lives.