Mosquito bites are itchy. You end up scratching and scratching. However, the real reason we hate mosquitoes is that just when you finally spot a flying one and try to follow it with your eyes, it vanishes right before your eyes in an instant. How on earth do mosquitoes manage to disappear when you try to catch them? Let's try to eradicate these teleporting mosquitoes. Due to localized flooding in late summer, puddles have proliferated across the country, and mosquitoes that have reproduced rapidly during this time are now running rampant. The way mosquitoes flap their wings has a very unique characteristic compared to other insects. Professor Choi Cheon has been conducting research on airflow within living organisms. We asked him about mosquito flight. Almost all insects have low pressure on the surface of their wings, and this is a major cause of lift generation. If you observe how these insects fly, what happens when they move forward is called shear, starting from the tip. Now, regarding vortices at the leading edge, a shear vortex is an air eddy created as the leading edge of an insect's wing passes through the air. The center of this vortex has lower pressure compared to the surrounding area. Therefore, the leading edge of the insect wing experiences low pressure, and lift is generated here. One point to note is that low pressure does not occur on the trailing edge of the wing. This means that most insects utilize only shear vortices. Shear completion is also observed in the wings of butterflies, moths, and dragonflies. In fact, mosquitoes also use shear completion for flight. You can clearly see this by observing the low pressure appearing on the leading edge of the wing and the surrounding air. A distinct vortex is visible. So, what makes mosquito flight special? This is data comparing the wings of a mosquito and a fruit fly. While low pressure appears only on the leading edge of a fruit fly's wing, low pressure appears on the trailing edge of a mosquito's wing as well. This is because the mosquito utilizes a vortex —or trailing vortex—at the rear of its wing. As it moves and turns, it sits on the vortex generated at the rear end. Consequently, additional lift is generated at that moment. This is a phenomenon not found in ordinary insects. This is a lift graph for fruit flies and mosquitoes. With each wing flap, a fruit fly receives lift twice, while a mosquito receives it about four times. They receive force two additional times by utilizing the rear vortex. Looking at this alone, a mosquito's flight certainly seems special. However, the average flight speed of a mosquito is actually about 3.6 km per hour. Since a person walking at 4 km per hour is not particularly fast, mosquitoes are not that fast. If it isn't fast, how on earth do mosquitoes vanish right before our eyes in an instant? This is precisely due to the delay that occurs between our vision, perception, and reaction. Only after the light reflected from the mosquito enters our eye, forms an image on the diaphragm, and sends nerve signals from the diaphragm to the brain does our brain realize that we have seen the mosquito. The time it takes for the brain to perceive a mosquito is a maximum of 0.1 seconds—or rather, 1 second. Considering that a mosquito moves up to about 1 meter per second, by the time our brain detects it, it will already be 10 centimeters away. Furthermore, it takes time for the brain to detect the mosquito, issue a command to the motor nerves, and move our hand. This fact can be easily verified with a ruler. Even if you try to grab the spot marked with a red dot, you end up grabbing it a few centimeters away. The average time it takes to perceive something and move your hand is typically 0.3 seconds . A mosquito could have moved up to 30 centimeters. Another point is that mosquitoes appear faster the closer they are to our eyes. This is because even if a mosquito moves the same distance, the image formed on the membrane shifts slightly when it is relatively far from the eye, but moves significantly when it is close. Since it appears to move more within the same amount of time, we perceive a mosquito flying close to our eyes as moving faster than it actually is, as if it were vanishing in an instant. For this reason, most small insects appear to disappear in a flash. However, isn't the reason we get particularly annoyed by a mosquito's instantaneous movement because, unlike other insects, mosquitoes make us feel light? It’s even more regrettable when you miss it because you really want to hold onto it . Yeah.