A state-of-the-art South Korean frigate sails the South China Sea. The Philippine Navy’s newest warship, the BRP Miguel Malvar, is a 3,200-ton guided-missile frigate built by HD Hyundai Heavy Industries. The Philippines is rapidly expanding its naval power by purchasing these, along with offshore patrol vessels, from South Korea. But now, the Philippines has set its sights not on the surface of the sea, but beneath it. For the first time since its founding, the Philippine military is pushing to acquire submarine capabilities. The initial goal is at least two diesel-electric submarines. According to Philippine government reports, the project cost, including two submarines, a base, and logistics support, is between 80 billion and 100 billion pesos. In Korean currency, that amounts to roughly 2 trillion won. The primary reason the Philippines wants submarines is the South China Sea. As a nation of over 7,000 islands, the Philippines has limited capability to monitor its vast Exclusive Economic Zone using only surface ships and aircraft. The Philippine military leadership views submarines as a game changer for maritime defense. South Korea is one of the countries eyeing this market. However, it is Hanwha Ocean, not HD Hyundai Heavy Industries—which has been exporting surface vessels—that is at the forefront of the submarine bid. Last year, under the mediation of the Defense Acquisition Program Administration, HD Hyundai Heavy Industries and Hanwha Ocean formed a " One Team" for naval ship exports. The strategy is for HD Hyundai Heavy Industries to lead overseas surface ship projects, while Hanwha Ocean leads submarine projects. During the APEC summit last November, Philippine President Marcos met with Hanwha Ocean executives in person. The card Hanwha Ocean has played is the KSS-3PN, a version modified for the Philippine Navy, based on the technology of the ROK Navy’s 2,800-ton Dosan Ahn Chang-ho class, or Jangbogo-III series. It is not just about selling submarines . They have proposed a package that includes building a dedicated submarine base in the Philippines, establishing an MRO center for maintenance and repair, and providing training for submarine crews, maintenance personnel, and commanders. The plan also includes technology transfer and the involvement of local defense companies. The competition is fierce. France’s Naval Group has proposed Scorpène-class submarines, while Spain’s Navantia has offered the S-80 PN. Italy’s Fincantieri and Germany’s TKMS have also teamed up, entering the Philippine market with the U212 NFS. Global submarine powerhouses are clashing over the contract for the Philippines 'first submarines. The reason South Korea is gaining attention is its proven track record in the Philippines. Starting with the Jose Rizal-class frigates, HD Hyundai Heavy Industries has won consecutive orders, including the Miguel Malvar-class and offshore patrol vessels. With the Philippines even operating South Korean FA-50 fighter jets, it has become a key customer for K-Defense. On top of that, Hanwha Ocean possesses experience in exporting submarines to Indonesia, in addition to building them for the South Korean Navy . If Korean submarines follow our surface ships and fighter jets into the Philippines, it would mean that K-Defense has established a comprehensive military system connecting the Philippine skies, the sea, and even the underwater domain. However, the contract has not been finalized yet. The specific procurement schedule, final budget, and selection timeline for the submarine project have not been officially announced. As tensions surrounding the South China Sea continue, the Philippines' need to acquire submarines is growing ever greater. The Philippines 'first submarine tender features a face-off between traditional European submarine powerhouses and Korea's KSS-III. All eyes are on whether K-Defense can secure the underwater domain, following its success with Korean fighter jets and surface ships.