This is Balsum. On August 26, a disaster of unimaginable scale occurred in a Himalayan valley along the border between Nepal and China's Tibet. As glaciers and rocks collapsed, a massive amount of ice, stone, and mud poured into the river, instantly turning into a giant torrent that swept away villages, roads, and a hydroelectric plant construction site down the valley . According to the latest situation reported by Reuters on September 5, at least 1,344 people have lost their lives in Nepal, and about 4,887 people are still missing. Among them are our fellow Koreans who were working at the local hydroelectric plant construction site. Search and rescue operations are still ongoing. On the 5th, a Chinese worker who had been trapped in a tunnel for ten days was rescued alive from 225 meters inside, and Nepalese rescue authorities have not given up on the possibility that people may still be alive in the tunnel. According to the aforementioned Reuters report, Korean rescue experts are also doing their best to support local rescue efforts. Sadly, because there are so many people who have yet to return to their families at this very moment, what is most important now is rescuing even one more person alive. However, at the same time, whenever such massive disasters occur, the world has long faced the same question. Couldn't we detect these dangers even a little bit earlier? The question is, couldn't we warn people of the danger at least a little bit before these disasters strike their cities? Of course, since this disaster in Nepal was a complex event intertwined with glacial collapse, it was not a disaster that could have been prevented by any single flood forecasting system, even if there had been prior warnings from experts. However, if you follow this very problem—the global challenge of how to detect danger even a little bit earlier—you unexpectedly find South Korea emerging. The World Meteorological Organization (WMO) is a UN specialized agency that leads international cooperation in the field of global weather and climate. This organization introduced South Korea's AI-based flood forecasting system in detail as a practical operational case of future flood forecasting technology. Under the headline "Resilience Driven by the Future of Flood Forecasting," the WMO highly praised South Korea's technology for preparing for such tragic disasters. Our country's technological prowess is being recognized far more than we realize. According to data, our country currently uses real-time data such as rainfall and water levels at about 223 points nationwide to predict flood risks using AI. But the fact is, our predictive system is not just forecasting climate within Korea. In fact, our technology is being introduced in a wide variety of regions and providing significant help. Among them, in the ASEAN region, where concerns over floods and climate damage are always high, a testbed for AI-based flood forecasting has been established in the Marikina River basin in the Philippines with support from Korea. And now, similar movements to utilize Korea's related experience and technology are following in countries like Indonesia and Laos. Other nations have begun applying the system currently in use in Korea to address their own problems. However, starting this May, things have moved up a notch. The WMO announced last May that it has launched a five-year international project to strengthen the flood forecasting capabilities of pre-selected countries with support from our government. The WMO stated that in this project, it will review new approaches such as AI and machine learning tailored to their own flood forecasting systems and utilize our country's practical operational experience in the process. In other words, Korea's flood forecasting experience has now become an experiential asset used to enhance the flood forecasting capabilities of all humanity, going beyond a few individual support projects. We began seeking answers to this problem sooner than anyone else, and now, as a result of turning it into a system, the technology we proactively developed has started to be used to solve problems in other countries as well. But what is surprising is the fact that we are not just helping developing countries. The countries seeking answers from Korea were not just the Philippines or Laos, and they were not only paying attention to our disaster prediction systems. The movement of saying, "We have a problem, so let's find the answer in Korea," is happening simultaneously in a wide variety of fields and across many different countries. One such country is Germany. Last August, Petra Köpping , the Minister of Health for the German state of Saxony, visited South Korea in person, leading a delegation of representatives from hospitals, nursing facilities, and the medical care sector . The media outlet that reported this news was*Deutsches Ärzteblatt*, a leading medical professional journal read by the German medical community. This outlet used a quite impressive headline when reporting the news. " Saxony now intends to learn from Korea's healthcare system." The article stated that their purpose for coming to Korea was neither tourism nor a routine diplomatic event, but because of social problems Saxony is actually facing, specifically the shortage of labor in the care sector due to an aging population. Therefore, what they learned from Korea were practical hospital operational know-hows such as hospital digitization, patient monitoring systems, medical and care robots, medical AI, and medical information systems. This was confirmed in more detail in materials released directly by the state government of Saxony, Germany. The Saxony Ministry of Social Affairs described South Korea as one of the most innovative medical markets, highlighting Hallym University Sacred Heart Hospital's digital control center and its 77 service robots used for logistics, disinfection, and care, as well as Samsung Medical Center's paperless workflow and automated logistics system. And Minister Köpping made some quite direct remarks regarding this visit. "The goal is to examine the Korean healthcare system and identify approaches with high potential for transfer to Saxony." This is a point where we tend to pause and reflect. For a long time, Germany was a country that felt like a role model to us. A dynamic where they taught and we learned was a familiar sight for us. We actually studied Germany's welfare system, referenced their medical system , read books, and translated materials on how their social systems functioned. It was rare for Germany's name to be missing when thinking of representative developed nations in Europe. Such memories still remain within our generation. Yet now, a German state health minister and healthcare officials have come to our country with their own issues of aging and labor shortages, asking for solutions and learning from our system. This is not about who is superior. We, too, are responding to an aging crisis, just like Germany. But we are finding answers, and the solutions we have found serve as immense breakthroughs from their perspective. This is a clear snapshot that proves just how much the standing of the Republic of Korea has changed over the past few decades. However, some might think this is merely an isolated case happening in just one German state. But just a few days later, a very similar scene unfolded in Italy. That place is Verona , Italy. As you know, this is the city of Romeo and Juliet. Verona, a city with a long history designated as a UNESCO World Heritage site. Yet, even in this beautiful city, there is a realistic headache for which they want to ask our country for answers. That is the issue of traffic. Verona’s local media outlet, Verona News, placed the problem facing their city and the emergence of Korea into a single headline. "Too many cars, too little space.""Now Korea has stepped up to study Verona and proposed a mobility revolution to us." According to the article, about 65%of movement in Verona still relies on private vehicles. The problem is that, due to the city's historical relics and its spatial limitations as a UNESCO World Heritage site, they cannot expand roads as they please. So, for about nine months, Verona has been working with none other than our research team to find a solution to this very problem. This is not just an expression used by the local press. Looking at the official data released directly by the City of Verona, you can see just how thoroughly our research team examined the city itself. If you look at the smart mobility study results announced by the City of Verona, the Korean research team investigated actual roads and intersections, conducting vehicle and pedestrian field surveys, launching drones over nine intersections, and even surveying 621 residents and tourists. After meticulously analyzing Verona's real-world traffic conditions, they proposed traffic flow optimization using AI and big data, an integrated traffic information platform, and a smart mobility governance and management system to the Verona city authorities. Tommaso Ferrari, Verona's official in charge of the environment, described this collaboration as an opportunity to compare their reality with advanced technology, and he expressed great admiration for our technical team's outstanding expertise. The important point here is not the fact that an Italian city bought one of our technologies. It is that a historic Italian city invited a Korean research team to solve their long-standing headaches and sought answers from them. In other words, they, too, found the solution to the problems they were facing from our country. From the WMO and Germany to Italy, the situation is that they are all seeking answers from Korea to solve their own problems. At this point, it no longer starts to look like a coincidence. And when you actually widen your perspective beyond Verona, the map expands even more rapidly. This time, several ASEAN countries participated simultaneously in the 2026 K-City Network overseas demonstration project released by our Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport. Among them, the Philippines decided to apply a system that manages traffic and optimizes signals with AI, and Vietnam began testing traffic systems and smart intersections using AI and big data. Furthermore, water management and disaster response in Brunei, and traffic accident and congestion detection systems in Malaysia were selected as demonstration targets. So, this wasn't just a special story involving one specific country. Each city is in a different situation and faces different problems accordingly. Yet, all of them have begun to come to Korea with their problems in hand. However, seeing it this far, you might think the following . Since all of this is related to AI technology, isn't it just that Korea is a little better in that specific field? But if we zoom out the camera angle, South Korea's reputation for providing solutions remains strong, even in non-cutting-edge fields. First, let's look at the very problem that most major cities around the world are currently experiencing. It is the issue of food waste disposal. La Vanguardia, a prominent Spanish daily newspaper, featured Korea's food waste disposal method and ran a surprisingly powerful headline. The Asian country where throwing away food waste is prohibited. It recycles 97%of its food waste. Naturally, the Asian country in this headline is none other than our own. The article describes our country's food waste treatment system in detail. To us, it’s so familiar that we don’t think of it as a special system , but Spain couldn't help but admire our way of handling food waste, which bans direct landfilling, applies a volume-based waste fee system, and now even measures output using RFID. Next is the World Bank. This is a representative international organization that supports development policies and institutional improvements in various countries. When the World Bank introduced our country's waste management policy, they didn't just mention it as a mere interesting overseas case. They specified that this is a learning process that the whole world must study. In fact, the World Bank has launched a course on "Korea's Solid Waste Management," teaching governments around the world how to design and specifically apply policies like Korea's volume-based waste fee system and extended producer responsibility. When you think about it , it's quite a strange yet pleasant scene. Our ordinary daily routine of discarding food waste and tapping a card without much thought has become an administrative system that public officials and policymakers in other countries need to study. And people are actually coming to Korea to learn this. According to data released by the ASEAN-Korea Cooperation Fund, officials from ASEAN's integrated waste management cooperation project held a knowledge-sharing program in Seoul in April 2026. And the government of Paraguay, far away in South America, has also recruited people to learn this system from Korea. In June 2026, the National Institute of Public Administration (INP) under Paraguay's Ministry of Economy and Finance recruited participants for a training program titled "Strengthening Capacity for Integrated Solid Waste Management in Busan" for officials from the Paraguayan Ministry of Environment and local governments. In other words, what the world is looking for in Korea is not just one piece of high-end technology. How we dispose of trash, how we calculate costs, how we record it, and how we turn it back into resources—the very way our society operates is now becoming a subject of learning. And that scope is visible when we look even higher. This time, it is about how the government operates. According to the "Digital Government Outlook 2026" report released by the OECD in June 2026, Korea recorded a score of 0.95 on the Digital Government Index. The current OECD average for the Digital Government Index is 0.70. The difference in scores may seem small, but this is not just a little higher than the average. The maximum score is 1.0. Yet Korea’s 0.95 is effectively a score near the very top of the evaluation scale, making it number one in the world. Websites like "Government 24" are prime examples of such a digital government system, and as you all know from using them, aren't they incredibly convenient? The OECD has assessed that South Korea has utilized data as a strategic asset across the government and internalized digital technology into its public sector. Furthermore, in an earlier published in-depth review of South Korea's digital government, they went as far as to describe South Korea as a global leader in digital governance. Now, the international community's interest in South Korea goes beyond climate prediction systems, traffic systems, and waste management technology; it has extended to how the government connects data, designs administrative services digitally, and provides them to citizens. Because all of these things are part of our daily lives, we don't really feel their significance. It’s normal not to notice them when they exist, only feeling the inconvenience when they are missing. However, those of you who have experienced administrative services abroad must truly appreciate the Republic of Korea, which possesses a uniquely unrivaled and overwhelming level of digital administrative systems. But it is said that what the world wants to learn from us is not just our cutting-edge technology and administrative systems. Looking at the results of the 2026 international cooperation project competition held by the Seoul Metropolitan Government for overseas cities, a total of 52 project applications were received from 44 cities in 20 countries. Among them, what some countries wanted to adopt from Korea was neither an AI control center, nor robots, nor a massive data platform. San Salvador in El Salvador and Banda Aceh in Indonesia wanted to implement Seoul's outdoor library model , which allows citizens to read and relax in public urban spaces, in their own cities. San Salvador aimed to learn from the Korean example to operate an outdoor library in Cuscatlán Park, and Banda Aceh in its city center's historical and cultural park. And Bangkok, Thailand, decided to analyze its own traffic flow and pedestrian patterns by referencing Seoul's pedestrian safety experience to create a pilot design for safe crosswalks. As those who have been to Bangkok know, the city faces such serious pedestrian system problems that it makes you forget any complaints about Seoul being complicated, which is why they want to learn from us. At first, it was AI flood prediction. Then, it was administrative efficiency and smart cities. On top of that, countries and cities around the world are now seeking to learn about our food waste disposal systems and how our government works. But now, other countries are looking at our ordinary daily routines—like where citizens read books or how to make crosswalks safer—as role models. So, why on earth is this happening? Why are they trying to learn from the Republic of Korea? To answer this question, we need to take another look at what kind of time South Korea has lived through over the past few decades . One striking aspect in defining our country is that it is a nation that has passed through an incredibly compressed period of time. As we navigated those unique times, we created diverse aspects of society. Industrialization and urbanization arrived within a generation or two, leading to an influx of people into cities, an explosive increase in cars, and sudden, mounting issues with traffic congestion and waste. In step with these circumstances , our administration had to keep up with a rapid digital transformation, and now we are facing the world's fastest rates of aging and rising demands for medical care. We experienced in just one or two generations, alongside our rapid growth , problems that other countries faced one by one over the span of decades. And, matching that speed, our trial and error was also compressed. When problems arose, we created systems; when they didn't work, we fixed them, applied new technologies, and adapted them to reality. Of course, other countries aren't coming to us because we are a nation that has solved every single one of these problems. Rather, because we experienced those problems first and much more intensely, we are a society where experience—how we failed, how we fixed it, and which systems actually survived—has accumulated very rapidly, which is why they look to us. Compressed growth led to compressed social problems, which in turn created compressed trial and error . But now, those times of trial and error have begun to hold a completely different value. We simply worked hard and tenaciously to solve the problems in front of us, but the solutions we produced during that process have begun to be valued far higher than we expected. Thus, we have become the model answers that other cities and countries reach for first when solving their own problems. In the past, we had to look for more advanced nations to find answers. We sent people abroad, translated books, and adopted foreign systems, adapting them to fit our reality. But after one or two generations have passed, now they are coming to us. A medical journal for the German medical community even ran a headline saying they want to learn from Korea's medical system. Local media in Verona, Italy, also used the direct expression that "Korea studied us and suggested innovation." The World Bank likewise turned Korea's waste management system into a learning process for other countries to study, rather than just a curious foreign case . The OECD also evaluates Korea's digital government as a leading global case, and many cities around the world are finding their own tomorrow even in the outdoor libraries and crosswalks we pass by every day. The way we looked at other nations just a short while ago is exactly how they are looking at South Korea now. The daily life we thought was nothing special because we were so used to it has suddenly become a reference book for someone else looking to their future. Of course, that reference book contains more than just the successes we have created. It holds the very history of South Korea, built through countless trials, failures, and constant improvements. While the many problems scattered before us still demand new answers, the value of the condensed time and effort we have lived has now become a precious asset of South Korea that the whole world is racing to learn from. Thank you for watching. See you again.