Even if Qualcomm doesn't use Samsung Foundry, they absolutely cannot ignore the market share of Samsung phones in the Android ecosystem. Qualcomm has also learned a great deal from them. It is true that the people working on Samsung Electronics 'hardware and software for mobile phones are both very talented and hardworking. Qualcomm also cannot afford to ignore a massive customer like Samsung. Hello, everyone. I am Park Jun-young. I worked at Samsung in the semiconductor division for about 10 years. For over 10 years now, I have been working in the semiconductor industry, providing lectures, consulting, and M&A services. It is a pleasure to meet you here at Sinsa-indang. >> How much impact will the news of ByteDance considering a purchase of 7 million Nvidia GPUs have on Samsung Electronics' memory business? Things like "1 million units" or "new types of chips" essentially mean that what was already happening is being scaled up. It is basically doing what they were doing before, but a bit better. You can look at it in that light. Because when Nvidia calculates its revenue, it’s not that they weren't doing business in China, but rather that it wasn't being fully accounted for; it's not that they weren't selling there. The important thing, however, is that they introduced a new model. The fact that companies like ByteDance are placing orders means that, ultimately, the demand and needs for memory companies, including Samsung Electronics, are continuously growing. So, if actual orders follow, if you want to buy Samsung memory right now, you have to wait for a year. Is there an actual "fast track"? Yes. If you need to buy urgently, there is what's called a "spot price." Compared to about a year ago, the price has already gone up by about five times. But you have to pay even more than that. There is this so-called spot price, and whether they purchase at that rate or if China is allowed to purchase new GPUs—which would likely be Nvidia's GPUs already going through TSMC, such as Rubin or Blackwell—since HBM or necessary DRAMs are already included in those, and given that Samsung Electronics is currently unable to increase capacity or wafer production, it should be seen as evidence that demand is continuing to grow. >> What is the market significance of 5- year long-term contracts in memory, amid customers inquiring to secure supply through 2031? >> Yes. As we will continue to discuss regarding memory, memory companies are still being judged by the financial market as being in a cyclical industry. Of course, that has been the case for a very long time. The reason memory companies have cycles is typically because every decade or so, whenever the major trends in the electronics industry—such as the PC market, mobile, data centers, and now AI— shift, we see a phenomenon where demand suddenly spikes and then drops, creating these cycles. Uh, as I’ve mentioned a few times on Shin Saim-dang , memory is actually being treated a bit differently in this AI era. People like me might think that the cycle has slowed down significantly or has even almost disappeared. However, how the industry talks about it and how the market perceives it are likely different. Ultimately, they want to show that the memory industry’s key suppliers are not cyclical. So, there are two representative ways they are doing this. One is HBM, which is a semiconductor we can discuss in Part 2. Customized memory. Until now, memory was a standalone, commodity-type supply , but now it’s becoming a customized, foundry-type memory. This approach accounts for about 30 to 40 percent of total revenue. Then, even when supplying the same DRAM, they secure it through what’s called a Long-Term Agreement (LTA), or in Micron’s case, they might even talk about highly specialized contracts. Yes. Through that, they take about 30 percent. So, by using HBM and LTA contracts, they want to keep telling the market that 70 percent of their total revenue is very stable, effectively saying, "We are not a cyclical industry." Therefore, especially in memory, Samsung Electronics certainly has 5-year contracts as well. Typically, they often use two types of contracts: 3- year and 5-year terms. But the company that has the most of these contracts is closer to Micron. Since Micron is a U.S.-based company and U.S. firms are in a position where they cannot secure semiconductors on their own, Micron has the most supply agreements, while Samsung Electronics actually has the highest supply volume. However, because Samsung Electronics has the largest supply and can provide to anyone, they don't need to rely as much on LTA contracts. Because they can just sell them at the highest price. Yes. Anyway, the point is that 5-year and 3-year contracts do exist, and they want to keep emphasizing that this might help dispel the memory cycle concerns. So, Daishin Securities suggested 560,000 won, and the reason brokerages can make such suggestions is perhaps due to a slowdown in the memory cycle. It seems like some mutual effort is needed regarding such matters. Discussion. >> Is JP Morgan's forecast that Samsung Electronics 'HBM market share, which was in the 20%range last year, will rise to the high 30%range next year possible? >> Well, it has become possible now. In conclusion. Yes. If you actually recall the situation, for Hynix, Samsung, and Micron last year, Hynix was at 65%, while Samsung was not even at 21%, it was 17%. Then Micron was around 21%, so it was about a 6 to 2 to 2 ratio. Then, about a week before this broadcast, Counterpoint released some very surprising figures for the second quarter of 2024. SK Hynix dropped to 50 %. Samsung Electronics came in at 33%. And Micron came in at around 17%. These three companies hold an oligopoly, and the biggest reason is that while Samsung struggled with HBM3 and 3E, their performance suddenly improved drastically with the HBM4 product; even in the industry, we will discuss this in detail in part two, people are actually asking, "Why is Hynix like this?" A lot of talk like that is coming out. I actually met with people from Hynix a while ago, and such things are indeed being discussed. So, it's not just JP Morgan; a month ago, it was UBS. UBS predicted that a reversal would happen next year. Yes. So, whether the reversal happens next year or the year after is what various reports and industry experts are anticipating. In my view as well, the formula that "HBM equals Hynix" has long been broken. Yes. You can look at it that way, so since they have actually raised their share to around 30%, what will happen next year? I think it could be similar next year or even a reversal could occur. That is actually the situation. Because technologically, Samsung Electronics has become significantly better at HBM4 , which is supplied for the Rubin chip, and Hynix is not catching up. If the star of next year becomes Rubin, then demand for HBM4 will increase; while they will still make a lot of Blackwell chips, Nvidia will naturally want to make more expensive ones since Rubin is costly. So, depending on how much the HBM3e used in Blackwell is maintained, the market share of the two companies could change. Yes. It would be good to keep an eye on those factors. >> Among Micron's earnings announcement and its bold guidance, what are the key points Samsung Electronics investors should focus on? >> Yes. First of all, Micron allows us to basically forecast the performance or stock price outlook for the memory business. But as I talk to acquaintances who know a lot about Micron, they say they thought Micron was struggling, but it actually went up 15-fold in 3 years, or that it rose by 100%. So, the U.S. market is very honest. The argument that you only need to buy the S&P 500 isn't wrong because there are no supply and demand issues, and massive investment is pouring into companies with clearly improving value. For companies like Samsung Electronics or Hynix, our domestic market had strong supply and demand issues a few months ago in July, August, and September, and it wasn't actually good due to the nature of so-called leveraged ETFs. Then, what is the situation now? For Micron, we had a tough time in July, August, and September. But Micron and the semiconductor sector in the U.S. weren't doing very well at that time either. That’s because, in terms of supply and demand, they have the software sector, not just semiconductors. Funds are moving back and forth, deciding whether to go into AI software or come back. As I've mentioned a few times, I tend to hold mostly domestic product companies and overseas equipment material and parts companies. Since I tend to buy only top-tier companies, I've noticed that overseas equipment and parts companies —industry leaders like Applied Materials and Lam Research—have seen their stock prices drop significantly. They usually fell by more than 30%. But they are very similar to Micron, and they have almost fully recovered compared to 3 months ago. Micron went beyond recovery to see a gain, but Samsung Electronics and Hynix are still down; Samsung is down about 5%from 3 months ago. Hynix is still down by about 15%. This means they haven't returned yet. Well, honestly, it's difficult to say when they will return, but I can say that the flow of money into semiconductors has improved slightly now that the talk about whether semiconductors have peaked or if AI is okay has subsided a bit. In conclusion, looking at Micron, we can see that there's no real problem with AI demand. However, the talk about a 90 %revenue increase could also be the case. And secondly, there's also the fact that the operating profit margin is clearly very high. So, as Chairman Chey Tae-won has mentioned often, the three major memory companies plan to significantly increase wafer production , and even if prices drop a bit from late next year, Micron has also discussed this in their conference calls. Even if profit margins decrease, the sheer increase in quantity means performance can still improve. If we look at those factors first, and considering Micron’s actual performance and profit outlook, there shouldn't be any major issues yet for Samsung Electronics investments. Of course, there will clearly be supply and demand issues within the Korean market, but I’d like to emphasize that supply is still insufficient, demand is overflowing, and there’s little reason for prices to fall. >> Is the 110 trillion won operating profit forecast for Samsung Electronics in the third quarter an additional momentum? Or is it a case of "sell the news"? It’s a bit hard to say these days, because there are two reasons for that. It’s because our market is not the U.S. market. If we were to follow Micron exactly, I think it might dip right after the announcement and then rise again. But in our country, stocks usually tend to fall and then rise back up after earnings are released. I’d need to give it more thought, but it might be a bit difficult on the actual day, though I do expect some supply and demand inflows might occur. As you know , everyone is already well aware of Samsung and Hynix’s performance; the issue isn't that the industry conditions or earnings are bad, but rather that capital isn't flowing in. And as you know, individual investors have recently become exhausted and have sold a lot. So, if you look at the current situation, it's quite complex with individuals, institutions, and foreigners all moving in and out. Just like before July, when the Iran conflict started—and is still ongoing —I don’t think a V-shaped recovery like we saw back then will be easy. Still, if not this, what should we buy? Looking at the profit aspect, rather than saying everything is fully priced in, I believe there is still a significant amount of potential left. So, on a certain broadcast, they asked me to provide investment points every week. When they asked me that, what did I say this morning? I told them that we are currently climbing the memory mountain, but we haven't reached the summit yet. It’s tough because we're climbing. However, I can say that we still haven't reached the summit. >> How will the news of the additional 3 million share buyback, on top of the existing treasury stock exhaustion plan , affect the stock price? First off, Hynix has traditionally been less active in shareholder returns compared to Samsung Electronics. Typically, if I recall correctly, Samsung Electronics has used about 3 to 5 percent of its total revenue for shareholder returns so far. It’s not a bad situation. But it feels like, compared to the U.S., shareholder returns have always been lacking. And that was, well, last year. It was already our market-related act for shareholders. As it passed, shareholder returns and the rights of minority shareholders actually increased, so for the conglomerate-affiliated companies that are seen as the majority shareholders. The so-called owners of the conglomerate groups; "owner" is not the right word. It’s not that these people called owners expand their stake to protect their property, but because their wealth grows as their assets increase. So, shareholder returns came out through that, and with such great interest in the capital market, and since we now have all this knowledge, we clearly know that Korea's shareholder returns are not very good. And we can’t just endure and live like the older generation used to, saying "Samsung and Hynix must do well, " right? And since I also have over 30% of my investments in overseas stocks, when looking at these factors, if I am a shareholder, it can become a virtuous cycle where money flows back in despite fluctuations in the stock price. However, the vicious cycle of just providing shareholder returns, rather than a vicious cycle, is that Apple, which didn't improve its technology but only suppressed the industry, is now seeing negative results because it only kept boosting its stock price through shareholder returns. So, in the end, I think investment for technology comes first. Yes. Technology investment is the priority, and since the semiconductor industry requires so much investment, we have to consider that, but in any case, we have no choice but to continuously announce shareholder return plans. It came out just a couple of days ago. Nvidia, of course, has a huge market cap, but they said they would provide 240 trillion won in shareholder returns. Of course, it’s because they have too much money. As you mentioned, Samsung Electronics and Hynix also make a tremendous amount of money. Then we have to think about how to use this, and I can say that if shareholder returns are shown more clearly, the market will likely respond favorably. >> What is the first leading indicator that the large supply shortage gap of HBM is narrowing and a cycle shift is beginning? I see it in two main directions, so if we assume there is a cycle, there are two major inflection points. In the industry, those are 2028 and 2030. And then, of course, it's hard to say there's no cycle, but I think as memory semiconductors have become essential to the AI market, they have changed into a form very similar to system semiconductors. What I mean is, things like HBM that go inside AI chips. And when looking at AI performance, it turns out that information storage is the most important. Doesn't it end up in a situation where whoever remembers the most has the best performance? So, I think the debate about memory semiconductor cycles is gradually being dispelled, but there's no need to answer that right now; assuming there is a cycle, there's little chance prices will drop until the end of 2028. To be precise, the shortage will be most severe until 2027. As you mentioned, HBM demand is at 62%. Supply is at 19%. What that means is, regarding wafer production, the first prerequisite is that overall wafer production will only increase by the end of 2027. As I've mentioned on the show many times, Samsung and Hynix are currently building fabs. Wafers won't come out until the end of next year. China is unable to build any. They are building some NAND capacity, like at YMTC. But in the case of CXMT, which we will discuss in part four and is a concern for you all, they have never made money. So they haven't been able to build fabs. Even if talk of construction starts now, China won't see wafer production until the year after next. So, the earliest wafer production can increase is the end of next year. Then, until that time, it will be a constant shortage. But what is causing an even worse shortage? As you said, the capacity for HBM is increasing. This is not just about demand; physically, starting from this October or November, Samsung Electronics' P4 fab will only operate its back-end process lines for HBM. Also, Hynix is running its M15X fab in Cheongju exclusively for HBM as well. So, when making DRAM, if you have to choose between individual DRAM units or HBM, you'd naturally choose HBM. But by nature, you get exactly 2.5 times more standard DRAM units from a semiconductor wafer compared to HBM. In terms of chip count, it's 1,500 units versus 600 units. So, if you shift production to HBM, the supply of standard DRAM will decrease significantly. And because of that, standard DRAM supply will...It's a cycle of that nature. So HBM is in short supply. Standard DRAM is also in short supply. NAND is also in short supply. This situation is at its worst in 2027. Yes. So, what will the cycle be like in 2028? In my opinion, prices could either be maintained or drop slightly. But even then, demand is continuing to rise. Will supply suddenly jump 100%higher than it is now when it increases? Absolutely not. If you look at the total wafer production as I’ve mentioned before—Samsung, Hynix, Micron, and China at 4: 3: 2: 1 —that corresponds to 1.2 million, 900,000, 600,000, and 300,000 wafers. But the increase at the end of next year is about 300,000 units for each company. 300,000 people. That means it accounts for about 10%of the total volume. But since demand is still far greater, it's a 10%supply increase, not 50%. To reach 50%, we have to wait until 2030. Yes. That is the form it takes. So, there could be a correction in 2028. But that doesn't mean the expected cycle will collapse. It doesn't seem like the situation we saw in the past. Supply until 2030 refers to the investment cycle for infrastructure within the AI cycle, which is what we call GPU training. We estimate that to be around 2028. But even this was 2027 just last year. It keeps getting pushed back. Because, as you know, it's not just corporate-level investment, but also sovereign AI. Nations are now viewing AI as a security issue. So, they have to build it domestically. That creates not just B2B demand, but B2G, or government demand. So, the shortage becomes even worse. Then, if the upcoming technological shifts move forward, the threshold I mentioned for 2030 could change. I’ve been very optimistic, but the signals to watch for are either a decline in infrastructure investment or price fluctuations—a drop or stabilization—due to increased wafer production. And that would likely be around early 2028. That is how I would put it. >> Why are investors still cautious even though Samsung Electronics achieved yields within six months of mass-producing HBM3E? >> It is because of two reasons. First, the progress of the Rubin chip, which is intended for HBM4, has slowed down. Second, the main product this year is still HBM3E. This is a logical point, and thirdly, people are likely still saying that Hynix has the edge in HBM. The delay of Rubin seems to be a toss-up, but they announced that Rubin would be released starting in the second half of this year. The release of the Rubin chip isn't the problem; the issue is the data centers built by stacking those Rubin chips. There are the NVL72 and the NVL36 models. One is called Oberon, the other is Kaiho, and Kaiho is a bit delayed. A Rubin chip, which is about this size—10 cm— costs 100 million won each. Then you have the server for data centers made by stacking all of these. That costs 45 billion won. But that 45 billion won also includes other components. For instance, issues with optical communication, liquid cooling, and thermal management are causing some slight delays. That is why it is like that. The production of Rubin chips is not wrong. So, for Rubin chips, any customer just wants the finished product. Because they want that, Caiber is getting a bit delayed. It's not a key value, but a single item, and rather than a small one of about 500 units, it's about the size of a tall server as tall as us. And Caiber is essentially ten of those long servers attached together. It is structured like that. So, it's about 45 billion won, and while that is delayed, isn't it because of Rubin production that there is no HBM4 demand yet? That is the reason, and secondly, regarding the contracts within this year, Hynix still has HBM3. So, it is true that Hynix is still ahead within this year. But I have mentioned several times that there is a difference in HBM4 technology, and while it is the same in terms of the new company, it seems people still do not fully trust it yet. So that is the situation, and I think it is reasonable to act conservatively. >> How do the structural differences, where Samsung uses its own foundry and Hynix outsources to TSMC for the HBM4 base die, affect cost and supply? Internally at Samsung Electronics, the people in the foundry division are unhappy. There is a bonus issue, and while you might feel bad, the foundry people are still angry because they didn't get their bonuses; this is because the headquarters determines the overall unit price of the HBM4, and the foundry makes it in their own 4nm fab. There is a lot of talk that they are not being paid properly compared to the cost they are incurring. Naturally, since the selling price becomes lower, it is more advantageous. It forces too much profit toward the memory side for HBM4, and there is definitely a way for the logic die to be produced slightly cheaper. Because Samsung uses its own foundry, it is advantageous in terms of supply and cost, despite internal complaints. Naturally. And currently, Samsung Electronics 'own 3nm foundry process is yielding well. There are reports that the yield is around 80%, and it is true that it has stabilized. Now, in Hynix's case, they have to outsource to TSMC, although Micron's situation is even worse than Hynix's. Micron is for TSMC, meaning the chip that goes into Nvidia is designed by TSMC for the Nvidia GPU. There is the front-end process, the back-end process , the foundry, and HBM is from Hynix, while the second vendor is Micron. However, since they are already aligned with Hynix, a certain volume can be produced. But it might get pushed back compared to the main products TSMC is handling. Yes. Therefore, in a situation where Hynix has to rely on TSMC, they are inevitably at a disadvantage compared to Samsung. They will also have to pay higher prices. Besides that, when they actually proceed with packaging, there are many issues regarding the movement back and forth. So, when actually making HBM, they have to move wafers around to stack them and proceed with the manufacturing. But because there are many changes during transport and issues with logistics, in conclusion, for these increasingly complex products where memory and system semiconductors are closely linked, Samsung Electronics , which provides total solutions, definitely has an advantage. So, if you look at the reality, what is Hynix talking about these days? In the industry, there is a lot of talk that Hynix is working very hard because they could be relegated to a mere component supplier. What that means is, if you look at the semiconductor here, there is a GPU on one side and HBM on the other. As I mentioned, HBM has individual DRAM chips and a logic die at the bottom, right? So, that means we are attaching them. Then, there is the GPU and HBM attached, and there is a package at the bottom called a silicon interposer that connects them. Now, if you look at the boundary where this is attached and where the logic die is attached, that is the interface. Then what does TSMC do? They want to do all of that themselves. But Hynix cannot make that themselves. Samsung Electronics can bite the bullet and make everything themselves. So if things go well, or rather, if TSMC does well, Hynix could be relegated to a component supplier. So what is Hynix doing about this? They are trying to form a logic die design team by hiring foundry workers from Samsung Electronics who aren't getting their bonuses. This is a very heated issue in the industry right now. Because chips keep getting bigger. Getting bigger means the GPU is on the side, and I don't know if it will be two or three years from now, but have you heard of HBM and HBF? If you have HBM and HBF, they are both memory. Both of them. Then who will make the logic die that connects these two memories? Ah, this is also a continuous issue. Since the importance of memory is expanding, the question of who will hold the reins on the parts connected to memory—whether memory will be relegated back to a simple component or become a complex product—is quite a significant issue, which is why Samsung Electronics is not without its advantages; of course, ultimately, it would be best to make everything, including advanced packaging. Yes. That said, I don't think Samsung Electronics will start making Hynix dies, but this type of industry structure does exist, and I can say that Hynix is working extremely hard to avoid becoming just a single-product DRAM supplier. >> Like UBS's analysis forecasting that Samsung Electronics will overtake HBM market share next year, what is the actual turning point and the key indicator to watch? >> Yes. Yes. Building on what I mentioned earlier, in conclusion, we can confirm the market share shift through quarterly reports from sites like Counterpoint or TrendForce, which track semiconductor demand and market shares, but ultimately, as I said, the biggest difference will be when the Rubin chip production really surges. Second, while Samsung has certainly faced a lot of shortages, it is true that Nvidia's monopoly, or rather the GPU-based Nvidia monopoly, is gradually crumbling . For one, there's AMD, which makes GPUs. AMD and Nvidia are linked anyway, and it's practically true that Samsung Electronics is the first supplier for AMD. Then there are actual things like TPUs or NPUs. Amazon is talking about it, and OpenAI has a custom chip with a strange name called "Jalapeño." Then the logic for those custom chips will eventually be different. For each company. Naturally, that gives Samsung an advantageous position. It comes down to just two things. Nvidia's Rubin chip production expands. And Nvidia's fortress crumbles a bit more in terms of share. If these two points happen, Samsung could pull ahead even faster. Also, there is a lot of talk right now that Hynix, for reasons I don't know, is really failing to find its direction for HBM4. So, I guess someone else on another broadcast must have mentioned that as well. Regardless, it seems like a situation that Hynix needs to look at more critically and seriously. So, in that context, what investors should first look at is the rate at which Nvidia's Rubin chips are secured. I say this is advantageous because Samsung Electronics' HBM4 will increase, and even excluding that, there are so-called NPU-based chips or ASIC semiconductors for AMD. Or perhaps if there is an upward trend in AMD's ASP. Then that is a more advantageous aspect for Samsung. In other words, while we expect market shares to shift either next year or the year after, my conclusion is that there aren't many aspects where Hynix will gain an advantage. >> What are Hynix's unique weapons that Samsung Electronics lacks, such as the Nvidia partnership, the Indiana plant, or HBM? Honestly speaking, we have to consider that Hynix doesn't have any technological edge that Samsung doesn't also possess. If we look at it realistically, what do they actually have? Well, Hynix definitely has the relationship and the trust. As you know , if you recall 2024, when Hynix rose like a shooting star and its stock price soared, they were the first to receive Nvidia's approval for HBM3. In this situation, we've learned that Hynix has managed its relationship with Nvidia very well for a long time. There are certainly agreements of this nature in place. Then, naturally, from Nvidia's perspective, they cannot avoid buying Hynix's semiconductors. Because they know that Samsung Electronics can be quite frustrating to deal with. By " frustrating," I mean that Samsung has been the top player for a very long time and is excellent at price negotiation. I’m not saying this as someone biased toward Samsung, but as I mentioned regarding the first quarter, the gap in operating profit between Samsung and Hynix is widening. That is due to two main reasons. First, Hynix is the main player for HBM3, but since HBM3 is based on order contracts, the supply prices are fixed. To a certain extent. So, they weren't able to fully capture the price increases there. Second, when it comes to negotiating prices for individual DRAM or NAND units, Samsung Electronics can be extremely aggressive. I’ve heard that in the first quarter, Hynix struggled to negotiate prices well, which caused some significant issues. If you look at the fourth quarter of 2025, the operating profits of the two companies were neck and neck. The two were at 20.1 trillion won for Samsung Electronics and 19 trillion won for Hynix. They were almost identical. But if you look at the first quarter of this year, Samsung Electronics is at 5.7 trillion won, and Hynix is at 3.8 trillion won. What happens in the second quarter? In the second quarter, it was 8.95 trillion won, while Hynix posted 6 trillion won. Samsung Electronics exceeded the industry's consensus guidance, while Hynix came in slightly below it. This quarter, Samsung is at about 11 trillion won. And Hynix is at 8 trillion won. Although both are making an enormous amount of money, the gap between the two companies is gradually widening. This is something we need to keep an eye on. Given that situation, Hynix currently has the relationships to build custom memory with various companies, as well as clear negotiation power for fabless companies that don't want to go "all-in" on or rely solely on Samsung Electronics. Except for those two things, it is certainly time for Hynix to put in a lot of effort. Between Samsung Electronics and Hynix, which one has more upside right now, and what is the reason? >> As I mentioned, I don't say I'm from Samsung; if you look at my books, I've written many critical ones about Samsung, so Samsung people don't really like me. There is no such thing as being truly objective, but if I elaborate, in conclusion, Samsung Electronics has an advantageous side. First of all, the capacity issue, or rather the productivity issue, plays a huge role in current profits. How will Samsung Electronics actually adjust its ratio when producing HBM next year? Some newspaper articles say they will increase the HBM ratio to 30%next year. If they increase it by 30%, 70%remains, right? What would happen then? Well, Samsung Electronics has the most capacity. It's 40%. If they take 30%of that, they've taken 12%. Then they produce DRAM with the remaining 28%. Then they can do whatever they want to get the highest possible price. The supplier completely becomes a price taker. In any case, Hynix also has a smaller volume. And it's hard to say there's a technical superiority like in the past. That's one reason, and another is the complexity of the products. As I mentioned in the first question, Samsung Electronics can provide total solutions, whereas Hynix is all-in on memory and must lead in technology, so in terms of complex products, Samsung Electronics can make a wider variety. Since they are also well-connected to foundries like logic dies, I would say I lean towards Samsung Electronics in that aspect. Is the reason Samsung, which spent 7.4 trillion won on AP costs alone in the first half, is increasing the share of Exynos 2700 due to cost reduction? >> There's bound to be some cost pressure. But when the MX division, the business unit that actually makes Galaxy, makes decisions...You might not remember now, but since the S22 incident, Samsung has used a lot of Qualcomm chips. But it is true that before that, they tried to include Exynos chips as much as possible. And as you might think now, everyone knows that for the S series, flagship products other than the so-called base model use Qualcomm chips . That is the situation, and they still haven't been able to make a decision yet. Because, in any case, the chips are gradually getting better. Moving on to other questions, regarding the Exynos 2700 used in the S27, my latest understanding is that it has passed the qualification stage. "Qualification" means it is now ready for product manufacturing. So, once that is the case, what happens with those blueprints and that foundry setup? It goes to the team that designs the S27 smartphone. This is a very multi-layered process. What I mean is, if you look at the Samsung Electronics DS division alone, the fabless System LSI business unit handles the Exynos design. Then there is the foundry front-end process. And the packaging process. With that packaged chip, they then proceed to design the smartphone, right? So, there are at least four stages involved between the components. That is where the overall product direction is determined, and while you could simply compare the Samsung Exynos and Qualcomm chips one-to-one, Samsung's mobile division has no choice but to toggle between Qualcomm and Exynos based on how they evaluate their design integration. Also, since customers are well-informed, they cannot just use a chip blindly solely for cost reasons. If you release a product just because the cost is low but it doesn't sell, that’s even worse, isn't it? Given this situation, expanding its use is indeed the goal. However, I don't think it's happening simply because it's an "Exynos." Even if Qualcomm doesn't use the Samsung foundry, and even if Samsung keeps trying to attract them, you cannot ignore the market share of Samsung phones in the Android camp. Qualcomm also learns a great deal from this. It is true that Samsung Electronics ' hardware and software smartphone teams are very demanding, but they are also very good at what they do. To Qualcomm, Samsung is a massive, significant customer. For a fabless company, having a strong customer base for their products is crucial, isn't it? You absolutely cannot ignore that. Qualcomm learns a lot from them, too. In practice, yes. Of course, in terms of performance, as far as we know, Qualcomm is a company that is exceptionally good at low-power design. Then, does that mean Exynos is bad at low-power design? Not necessarily, but as of now, Qualcomm certainly possesses more know-how in low-power design. That’s true, but the gap is definitely narrowing as time goes on. Yes. So, that aspect will continue to improve in the S27. As I told you when the S26 came out, they really need to conduct open testing. Hmm. Only after they conduct open tests to prove there are no actual performance issues and receive customer certification can Samsung Electronics exert leverage over Qualcomm. >> Looking at it the other way around. So, fostering a competitive system between these two companies is naturally a goal for the mobile division, the MX Business. So, while it hasn't been finalized yet, I can say that the Exynos 2700, which could be made for the S27, has at least reached the qualification stage. >> Is the achievement of Exynos, which increased its market share by overtaking Qualcomm, a result of cost burdens? Or is it an increase in competitiveness? >> First of all, rather than anything else , both the MX Business—the so-called Android camp—and the Apple camp weren't able to produce many phones because they lacked memory. Ah, actually, it's more that memory prices soared, causing chip prices to skyrocket. So, as B2C demand decreased, there is clearly a decline in overall market share. Then, there is the fact that Exynos's market share has increased. While there is Samsung Electronics' own Exynos, Samsung also supplies chips to low-end Chinese phone companies, similar to how Xiaomi used its own chips in the past, or they use designs for other phone companies. Because of that, there is certainly an aspect that has led to growth. As you know, because memory became expensive overall, we couldn't make many B2C memory chips, and as a result, the cost of sold products became too high, leading to losses for the MX Business, right? So, it's also quite ambiguous to sell too many of them. That is definitely a factor, and Samsung Electronics would generate revenue from Exynos chips used in Chinese phones. Because China uses low-end memory through companies like CXMT, there has been some slight improvement due to this, not because something suddenly got better; and since it only went from 7%to 8-9%, it’s not really that significant. Also, the reason Qualcomm's share dropped from 30%to 23% is more due to the impact of MediaTek. Qualcomm takes the premium flagship products, while MediaTek splits the market with low-to-mid-range products. However, sales for MediaTek’s mid-range phones have gone up much more . So, there is definitely an aspect where the market share is being eroded. I can put it that way. >> Can this Exynos 2700 show a clear turnaround from previous models in terms of heat generation and power efficiency? >> Of course, as I mentioned, once the actual S27 phone comes out—meaning if it's qualified now, it takes at least 6 months or more for tests that can be benchmarked like a prototype. Because the people making the phones will be designing them, right? So, in various scenarios, people will be gaming more here. Or they will be turning on the camera more. So, how can we improve efficiency here? They are likely changing something in terms of software and hardware. Such designs usually take about 6 months to develop. At least from now, we will have to wait and see how it turns out. Then, naturally, they will compare the new Qualcomm Snapdragon chip and the Exynos 2700, like an A/B test. Then, how was it before? As for how it was, when we actually benchmarked them, Qualcomm was better in single-core performance, while Exynos wasn't bad in multi-core performance—the two were quite similar—but compared to others, when users actually used it, what was the one thing they kept saying? The battery drains fast. The Exynos one. Yes. That was the biggest issue. So what does it all boil down to? The reason I said it's right to conduct these tests openly and continuously is that I believe we should get participants, influencers, and others involved to keep testing in the environments they actually use. That’s what it is. It's not just short benchmarking; for customers, it ultimately comes down to battery usage. What would be the second thing? How hot it gets in your hand after 20 or 30 minutes. Whether performance drops after 20 or 30 minutes or not. There would be many such package points, like heat generation. It’s a complicated issue, but I think honest testing in different forms—the kind that satisfies customers—is the right way to go. Yes . So, rather than just asking for changes, we should bring them together. Then, improvements might come out better. And if we incorporate that intermittently, even if it's not easy to change the Exynos design, it can be compensated for in the phone. For example, yes. Through such things, in reality, nothing is confirmed yet. Because it has only just been developed . Up to the S26, the initial benchmarking was okay, but in user tests, there were still battery and heating issues. We need to prove that with more data. I’ll say that nothing has been decided yet. >> Amid TSMC’s dominance, if Samsung’s 2nd generation 2nm process proves its yield and performance, could they win Qualcomm's orders again? >> I think we should see it as a possibility. Yes. But people often talk about this. When I meet and talk to people in the foundry business, the problem with Samsung Foundry is that, ultimately, they don't have a "big customer," and they can't just leave the lines idle, can they? So what happens? While there will clearly be differences in yield, it means they keep the lines running at full capacity . So, thinking they'll just take Qualcomm back and switch everything over to Qualcomm isn't as easy as you might think. Yes. So, we can't just slash prices, and for a virtuous cycle to occur, we eventually need to land a big customer, which brings us to the Taylor facility, where we're building for Tesla. One of the lines there is currently dedicated to producing Tesla's AI chips. The success of that project, combined with securing new orders, means one line or one fab needs to be defined for a specific client like Qualcomm, so it can run like TSMC's operations. Yes. This situation definitely exists. So, if things go well with Tesla, does that mean everything else will work out too? Not necessarily. Because if you look at Tesla, what is it? It goes into vehicles. Automotive components require high power, high capacity, and stability. You carry your phone in your hand, but what about a car? It has to withstand extreme weather, and lives are at stake. So the packaging technology and general engineering required are quite different. In other words, making semiconductors for automotive or infrastructure use is distinct from making low-power AP semiconductors. Ultimately, while successfully building for Tesla will bring in customers, if the Exynos 2700 isn't made well, clients like Qualcomm aren't just going to return. But will Qualcomm return immediately anyway? That's not the case. Because the situation with these production lines is clearly a factor. In conclusion, narrowing the market share gap with TSMC isn't easy, so rather than competing directly, it might be more realistic for Samsung to leverage its strengths in the automotive market and look toward other expanded Exynos-based products. So, instead of just trying to compete with TSMC, where there is still typically a two-year gap. Whether it's in terms of yield or product performance, it's better to acknowledge that reality rather than engage in a " bloody" price war; there could be a balloon effect, or growth in areas like generative AI or physical AI—which is where Tesla comes in. Expanding into those areas to boost market share might be a better approach. >> Should consumers be comfortable choosing the Exynos-equipped model of the Galaxy S27, which varies by region? >> Yes. As I mentioned, from a consumer's perspective, shouldn't we be pragmatic? We need to be objective, and as you know, there are Qualcomm developers and Samsung fabless developers, and these people are not stupid. They are all working very hard. Ultimately, what I think is important is that Samsung’s Exynos model has been in development for about 14 years now. Since the release of the Exynos product about 13 or 14 years ago, it is true that it has caught up significantly compared to Qualcomm. Yes. But because of actual incidents like the GOS controversy, when customers replace their phones— which they usually do every 3 to 4 years—it affects their decision-making significantly. So, when choosing a product, there needs to be a very clear sense of trust. Instead of just shouting that they will outperform others in terms of performance, I believe it's only possible if they consistently engage in marketing and announcements that earn customer trust, and Samsung Electronics cannot give up on Exynos. That is exactly why. What is the unique strength that Samsung Electronics possesses? Ultimately, they want to be able to do what Apple Silicon does. No matter how much criticism Apple gets, they make everything from iPads using their own silicon, don't they? Samsung Electronics intends to go even further than that. If you look at where Exynos is used now, there are mobile phones and AI PCs. And ultimately, they intend to use Exynos for physical AI as well. The spectrum is very hierarchical and well-structured. But they cannot give this up. Because even if it's just for physical AI. If they only manufacture robots for it, the profits will grow tremendously, and they have no choice but to use it. Therefore, having this silicon foundation is a matter of fate for Samsung Electronics, so it will continue to be a goal to develop it further. Yes. They cannot give it up, and while some may suggest spinning it off, this is not an era where spinning it off would work. It is a situation of shifting alliances. It's not like the old days where TSMC could say they only do foundry. They can't do that anymore. It's not a matter of trust. If it's good, everyone does everything. Yes. A prime example, as you know, is that Tesla is shifting everything to Samsung Foundry, but what are they doing? They are building their own fabs. Yes. Because these shifting alliances are happening, whoever is the best simply makes the most money. Given this situation, I would say it is necessary to demonstrate these things to customers and production developers. >> CXMT surpassed 10%market share in DRAM, overtaking some minor players, is this a technological pursuit? Is it an illusion? >> Yes. Rather than the word illusion, I would say it's closer to a balloon effect, and while it's not exactly a technological pursuit, China is indeed the only one left capable of catching up. Well, what I mean is, as I mentioned in the first part, ChangXin Memory's 10%DRAM market share is primarily due to the memory market growing three times larger than last year. To be precise, it's 280%, which is something that has never happened in history. Usually, as I have mentioned a few times, the memory market is typically around 250 billion dollars. System semiconductors are usually in the 500 billion dollar range. But this year, for the first time in history, I expect memory to be around 550 billion and system chips around 450 billion. What was 250 billion is now expected to reach around 750 billion dollars. Since it reached 750 billion dollars, the prices have risen too much. As a result , ChangXin Memory, which had always been a deficit-ridden DRAM supplier, is finally making money for the first time . Now, regarding that 10%market share, some might say it was 4%in Q1 and 8%in Q2, so 10%is significant. You could look at it that way, but in the industry, people often say it might not be easy to jump from 10%to 11%or 12%. That is actually what is being talked about more. So, while we will discuss it in other questions, there is definitely a 3 to 3.5-year gap in mass production between ChangXin Memory and companies like Samsung Electronics and SK Hynix. Yes. To elaborate, Samsung Electronics is currently mainly producing products like the 1c. The 1c is a 10-nanometer, 6 th-generation DRAM product, and Hynix is similar. However, ChangXin Memory is at the 1z stage, which is a 10-nanometer, 3 rd-generation product. So, there is a three-generation gap. There is clearly a difference in mass production technology. But when you look at news articles, what do you see? There are questions about whether they developed this or made LPDDR6, but what does that mean? It's just the development stage. There's a big difference between the development stage and the mass production stage, and while ChangXin Memory is catching up in the development stage, which is something to be wary of, you can't make money without mass production. Yes. It is true that there is currently a three-generation gap in mass production . So, one might think, "Well, they could catch up quickly in development, then." That is something to be wary of, but the idea that their 10%market share will continue to rise vertically is a bit of an optical illusion. While there is a risk of them catching up technologically, I would say there is still a significant gap in terms of mass production yields. >> To what extent is the suspension of Chinese production lines actually happening due to the U.S. blockage of parts and maintenance? It is a very serious situation. I think this might be a situation I’ve mentioned on broadcasts before, or perhaps a few months ago. It's something others don't talk much about on other shows, but in conclusion, the core US new equipment is dominated by the top five global companies, typically Applied Materials, Lam Research, and KLA, and naturally, ASML is also highly influential. That’s because of the EUV machines used in ASML equipment. There is a company called Cymer that makes the light sources, and that is a US company . Yes. So if they stop supplying the light source, ASML can't build the machines. They don't actually stop them from making them, though. However, looking at those four companies. One of the four companies, TEL, is Japanese. If their equipment can't be used, looking at it from a fab perspective. About 70%of the total equipment is US-made. You have to use this equipment . If you can't use this equipment, no matter what you do, you can't make the product. There’s no way around it. This is it. So what is the situation now? From the end of 2024 when Trump emerged, until 2025, China bought a huge amount of equipment. China purchased 38%of the global semiconductor equipment market. Followed by Korea and Taiwan. But now, they can't sell this new equipment. So what happens? As I mentioned, the inability to perform maintenance is a huge deal. So what kind of situation has unfolded? Usually, semiconductor equipment requires maintenance about once every three months. You absolutely must replace parts during maintenance. The cost for that fluctuates from hundreds of millions to billions of won . But the important thing is that if those parts themselves cannot be supplied, the top-tier parts used by Applied Materials cannot be installed. Then the production line has to stop. So what actually happens then? The parts suppliers are going crazy. They are saying, "I'll supply them somehow, even if it's through a detour." Or they keep looking into things like, "They say there's something similar in the Korean market, so how would that work?" As someone working in the semiconductor industry, I am getting countless inquiries asking if there's any way to bypass this. It’s that serious of a situation. So even though I really dislike Trump, from a semiconductor perspective, there are things to be grateful to him for. Actually. Because that structure exists, what does that mean? People might ask if Chinese equipment is increasing a lot. Even with that, if you cannot use the current high-end equipment, you ultimately cannot make high-end products. When it comes to memory, it is unconditionally bad to use outdated products. Yes. Therefore, this situation is quite serious. That is the situation I can describe to you. >> What is the reason why YMTC is pushing ahead with its IPO and capacity expansion despite the prolonged losses in the Chinese memory sector? >> Yes. Ultimately, it is patriotism and a strong will to complete a domestic supply chain. Well, YMTC is planning an IPO, and for CXMT, most of the funding —which was probably around 700 trillion won at the time—That's about the market cap now, but more than half of the people who funded that amount, what are they, ultimately? Investments from big tech companies in China, like Alibaba. Second, a lot of Chinese government capital has been injected. This is a very powerful force. It can be seen as a very strong determination to build an internal supply chain. But the situation with YMTC is a bit different because YMTC has better technical skills than people think. Yes . When developing technology, DRAM relies on continuous miniaturization, but YMTC’s NAND is about stacking upwards; they actually developed more new technologies for stacking than expected. So they have a decent market share, and as for focusing on the IPO and capacity expansion, they are building a fab in Wuhan with a capacity of 50,000 wafers, set for mass production starting around next May. It’s for NAND. It’s not DRAM, so don’t worry too much, but that is the situation. Yes. So in conclusion, it is to build a Chinese supply chain. Furthermore, as memory becomes crucial in the AI era, they have decided they must do this, and we should be fearful. What should we be concerned about? They have found a way to make money anyway. That condition exists. However, some people working in China say that even so, China doesn't have much money. I hear that a lot. Since mainland China also doesn't have much money, there is definitely a concern about whether they can continue to provide funds. So the question is, can they continue to pour money in? Nowadays, it's a huge country , and they have almost become a quasi-key currency nation. Yes, they can fund themselves through the yuan. Given this state of affairs, it might be possible, but I would conclude that they will succeed because memory is something they absolutely must have. >> Based on Samsung and Hynix standards, what generation of technology is CXMT’s 5 th-generation process, and what are the limitations of quadruple patterning? Well, this was a very big issue. Because the way numbers are called is different; as I mentioned before, Samsung, Hynix, and Micron use D1 XY Z A B C, where D is under development and C is in mass production . So, counting 1, 2, 3, 4, that's 7 generations. So, how does China refer to them? They use G3, G4, and G5. G3, G4, and G5 are roughly equivalent to the 1B level. It's about the 5th generation. Looking at the numbers, that's the case. So, while people talk about 11.9, that seems quite ambiguous, but regardless, around 12 is generally similar to the 5th generation of 10 nm-class DRAM. So it seems like they've come a long way. Right? However, as I mentioned, and as you also said, there are things they can't use, like ASML's patterns. They can't use EUV equipment, and furthermore, this was just a development attempt. So, regarding the previous generation—what was surprising is that they skipped a generation instead of going from G3 to G4 and then G5. That was actually surprising, because they were originally developing around the 1Z or 1A level, but then they suddenly jumped to 1B. We should pay attention to this situation, but the news has always been that it took over a year and a half for mass production after developing 1A or 1Z. Yes. That’s another factor. So, Samsung Electronics won't just sit still, will they? Now that they are developing 1D and also 1B, it feels like there is one less generation gap than before, since it’s two generations. But it takes some time for it to actually reach mass production. Yes. I can say that, and next, quad patterning, which doesn't involve EUV equipment, basically increases costs. The unit price, right? Because if you look at the patterns—they talk about quad patterning and SAQP, but that’s too technical, so let's call it self-aligned—it’s complicated, and you have to do photolithography two or three times. What that means is, with EUV, you put the wafer down, apply photoresist (PR), shoot the light, and it’s done in one go. But here, you have to do photo sessions at least twice, or proceed with other steps three or four times, which creates process variation. Then, because the process margin shrinks, it leads to lower yields and increased costs. So, blocking this one piece of equipment has a bigger impact than you'd think. That’s why, to get too technical— between Samsung, SK Hynix, and Micron, who uses EUV the most? Samsung uses it the most. This has a positive impact on unit costs in the mid-to-long term. Yes . Because of that, this quad patterning clearly has limitations in terms of cost increases and yield. And even if you use quad patterning, you actually can't really make it for G6 or G7 anymore. If you try to put EUV in, of course you can manage it somehow, but it won't work out. The reason we can tell is that Micron used EUV for the first time when making their 6 th-generation product, called the 1- gamma (1γ). They hadn't used it before that. Yes. I think that settles it to that extent. >> There is an opinion that we should keep China in check with a massive wafer supply, but is our high-price strategy actually helping China grow? >> That's right. I think both are true, for starters. The reason for selling at high prices isn't just wanting to sell high, but the fact that people are buying at high prices is a bigger factor. You could say that's more significant, and as a result, the memory market has nearly tripled; so, in other words, it's like this. Costs remained constant, but the selling prices skyrocketed, didn't they? The reason CXMT was said to be losing money was because their costs were higher than their selling prices. They had high losses and low yields, but didn't the selling prices rise even more than the costs? Because they started making a profit since the overall selling prices surged, CXMT ended up suddenly turning a profit compared to their costs. So, they ended up with some breathing room. So, it is true that we are helping China grow. But since we don't want that, when actually building a fab, like P5, we build it in three phases. First, second, and third floors . It takes one, two, or three years to fill them up. We usually bring equipment in six-month intervals. So when building a fab, we fill it half and half. That's why we call it phase 1 and 2. So if you look at P4, when we talk about the second phase, it's basically half of this side and half of that side. Originally, we only intended to fill half of one floor. But now they are planning to put in more. They are doing it right now. For those investing , this could be a point for materials, parts, and equipment. It's a straightforward point, and this observation is not wrong. Chairman Chey Tae-won has mentioned it, and Samsung Electronics is also concerned that relying too much on memory profits is not sustainable. Yes. They need to grow together. Because we never know what the U.S. might do next. So, since that risk clearly exists, it seems right to suppress China by significantly increasing wafer production. Even if that's not the case, won't prices crash once we increase wafer production? But wouldn't they adjust that accordingly? So it is correct that we must continuously keep China's influence in check. Yes. However, I can say that there is still demand in the memory market for the time being. >> Could you say a word to the subscribers of Shin Saim-dang? >> I have talked quite a lot about semiconductors on the Shin Saim-dang channel. In conclusion, I would say that the memory industry cycle hasn't ended yet, but we should definitely keep an eye on China and the capabilities of Taiwan as they work to expand the industry. I hope this provided some helpful insights regarding technical aspects and investment in the semiconductor sector. Thank you.