Poland, which has deployed South Korea's K2 tanks right up to the Russian border, has now urged for high-intensity NATO military exercises near Russia. As if in retaliation, Russia launched a drone strike just 2km from the Polish border, escalating tensions surrounding NATO's eastern defense line. According to the UK's The Times on the 13th, Polish Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Radosław Sikorski proposed NATO military drills near the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad at the Yalta European Strategy conference held in Kyiv, Ukraine. Deputy Prime Minister Sikorski stated that by increasing the intensity of exercises on NATO territory, they must ensure Russian President Vladimir Putin remains uncertain about NATO's potential actions. The intention is to pressure President Putin to divert troops currently deployed in Ukraine toward the defense of Kaliningrad. Kaliningrad is a territory on the Baltic Sea that is not connected by land to the Russian mainland. It is situated between Poland and Lithuania, both of which are NATO member states. Deputy Prime Minister Sikorski argued that there are few troops in Kaliningrad, claiming that President Putin views NATO as a peaceful alliance and assumes it will not exploit the region's vulnerabilities. Poland is already placing pressure on Russia by deploying South Korean weaponry to this region. According to the Polish military news outlet Polska Zbrojna on the 4th, 28 additional K2 tanks have arrived for the 9th Armored Cavalry Brigade, part of the 16th Pomeranian Mechanized Division, which defends the northeast. The region where the brigade equipped with these tanks is stationed is just 6km from the Kaliningrad border . Poland plans to accelerate the operational deployment of these tanks through additional deliveries and aims to strengthen its northeastern defenses by linking this to the future production of the localized K2PL model. The Times analyzed that European officials 'rhetoric toward Russia at this conference has become significantly tougher. It pointed out that the background to this is Russia's ongoing "hybrid warfare" against Europe , which combines cyberattacks, arson, and drone bombings. Deputy Prime Minister Sikorski said that Russia’s attacks on Eastern Europe are ensuring that the Polish public continues to consent to high defense spending. He pointed out that attacks on Western Europe, including Germany and France, are a mistake that proves this war is a problem for all of Europe. On the same day, Russia carried out a drone strike near Yahodyn, Ukraine, approximately 2km from the Polish border. According to the British media outlet The Guardian, it was revealed that a train carrying former British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and former Swedish Prime Minister Carl Bildt narrowly avoided a Russian drone strike. They were on their way back, traveling on a train to Warsaw, Poland, after attending an annual conference of European and Ukrainian leaders in Kyiv. The drone strike occurred just 15 minutes after the train passed near the border checkpoint. Over 450 Russian drones and missiles flew across Ukraine overnight, killing at least six people and injuring over 40. As suspicions arise that the Russian airstrikes even targeted European leaders, tensions over further escalation are mounting in Europe. This has been Ollie Defense. A special gift awaits you this Chuseok. Carefully selected, abundant holiday offerings in one place—elevated quality, lighter on your wallet.