And those are [music] many things um that uh that our that our friends in in Korea are already doing. >> What can the [music] US learn from Hyundai's model of that that um working together with your commercial and [music] and naval ship building? >> A great deal uh was learned and a great deal more to be learned. In preparation for the panel, I was reading a recent bipartisan congressional uh report on on um the mar uh US maritime um capabilities overall and it presented some pretty alarming pictures. As the ambassador said, China has 230 times the capacity of the United States. In terms of shipping orders, the United States had five last year. Uh China had something like 1,700. So, it's it's it's pretty stark. Um, Mr. Brock, can you tell us a little bit about how the department is thinking about this problem? I know you have been. I know the secretary of the Navy has several initiatives underway. >> Yes, the uh secretary's um maritime sass initiative um at its core um is intended to um restore the comprehensive maritime power of the nation uh for several reasons. Um the first reason of course is that our ability to build naval combatants um in the numbers we need um in the time frame we need and uh for the cost uh that's u the American taxpayer can afford um requires um a broader uh industrial base maritime industrial base um to make that happen you know as um over the last 30 to 40 years as our uh our maritime capacity other than naval has almost entirely disappeared Um and China's has has written has risen and we've traded places with them as far as uh global ship building and and the amount of uh flag ships that we have. Um the cost um and difficulty um in building naval combatants has has gone in the in the opposite direction. So at its core uh the Navy will benefit from um a revival of a broader maritime industry in the nation. Uh and that also simultaneously will deliver uh the sealiff that we need. And also um it's pretty apparent that um over the last 30 40 years um we've outsourced uh the transport of our economy. Um so 99.6% of our imports and exports that that go by sea and over 90% of our our economy does go by sea are carried on on non- US flag ships. Um and so uh it's an imperative also for economic security um and for the maintenance of our of our vital trade in times of um crisis in times of competition and not just in times of conflict um that we uh that we gain greater control over um those broader aspects of of the maritime industry. Um, what can the US learn from Hyundai's model of that that um working together with your commercial and and naval ship building? I know that the Navy sent representatives to Hyundai in September um to discuss and sort of look at at what what's going on, what what uh Steve, how might what what are your perspectives on that? And then I'll ask Mr. Lee. Uh yes, we've made several trips uh uh to uh to Hyundai and and Olsen. Uh the secretary himself uh was there in February. Yeah. >> of last year uh meeting with the leadership in Soul and then also um at the shipyard. A great deal uh was learned and a great deal more can be learned. the um the the amount of uh autom automation uh digitization uh the efficiency the organization of the shipyard the use of commercial ship building to underwrite and provide economies of scale to really uh bring efficiencies and affordability to naval and special project ship building. Uh you know we in the United States don't do uh dual commercial naval ship building. We build only naval ships at naval at shipyards. Um and that makes it extraordinarily expensive. Um, and also, um, you know, uh, our our shipyards are, you know, not nearly as modern or up-to-date. Um, so some folks like to say we build the world's most advanced naval combatants in 1950 shipyards, which, uh, if you think about that a little bit further, makes them not on time and very expensive, right? So, we need more investment back into u modernizing our shipyards, making them 21st century shipyards and employing 21st century uh, construction practices. Um and those are many things um that uh that our that our friends in in Korea are already doing. Um and one of the big reasons for that is they have a competitor um in China. Uh nothing makes you more lean and more capable and more efficient than a than a competitor that is that is working hard to take your market share. >> Um so uh tell us a little bit about the visit and about the Ursan shipyard. Um I was reading about that. It's pretty remarkable how modern it is. How many employees? Something like 40,000 employees using modern AI techniques and manufacturing. >> Yeah. Uh the our our shimar the HD Hyundai heavy industry as a single shyard. We are the world largest shimar uh about 6.8 million square meter uh area. So we have a 10 dry docks and uh 11 golas crane. to improve our productivity. We have uh 15,000 our own employees and 20,000 subcontractors. So, uh we deliver 50 ships per year. Uh this year I think the 48 ships uh per uh this year uh so that's the annual capacity and u we are operating a small naval shipyard inside the world biggest shyard. So uh we uh we adopting the uh state-ofthe-art uh technology from the commercial yard into the uh navy shimar. So there might be something different the US ship building industries uh mainly for the navy ships but the we have a good motivation for the commercial ship building. Uh we have as uh Mr. Brooks said we have a a big competitor in China. So we have to develop our uh technology continuously and that comes to the navy ships as well. >> Yeah. So, a model of really embedding embedding naval work within the commercial shipyard, something we're not doing. It might be, you know, could be interesting to think about those types of models, right? I I mentioned in the beginning that we don't have much of a maritime capability in the US anymore. Um, it's pretty much just naval. Um but and our competitor is a full spectrum global maritime power across the entire um industry um from shipping to ship building. Um but what we do have um as a tremendous advantage is we have allies very close allies that are the world's best ship builders in and not only in Asia and and Korea and Japan but you all have probably heard of the ice packed a agreement with Finland who builds about 90% of the world's ice breakers a new NATO member. So um so we do have a lot of industrial capacity amongst our alliance. We just need to find a way to um to pull that effort in a collective way that enhances the fighting capability and deterrence of not only the US Navy but but our but our partner navies. >> Thanks Steve. Mr. Lee, what has been your experience in in working in the US with American companies um the exchange of ideas? You you've uh I think you've started some new partnerships with Anderal with Palunteer. Um can you tell us a little bit about those experiences and and your experiences in in developing some of what Steve has mentioned? >> Uh we are we are working on uh to figure out the opportunity uh of a new business like the unmanned uh vehicle unmanned ships. So uh we started to have a discussion with the palant here and uh of which technology we can share and we can co-develop for the future market. uh that's the area we are seeking the opportunity for the uh future program. Uh but in the meantime, we also have a good conversation for the just for the uh combatant program for Korean Navy as well like the we have a good cooperation with the DRS for the next generation Korean uh destroyer and the we time to time talk to Lo Martin to develop the new market for the foreign navies export like the uh some some military uh vessels uh uh on there And yeah there are a couple of uh discussion has been happen also we have uh engaged with the uh uh American ship builder we we open our shyard to uh to invite them to show the our facility and how we working on the our ship building business that is the good start we can have a discussion uh which area we can do cooperation Uh and then there's also a lot of collaboration that we need to do on workforce development. Um in fact, you know, I'll give a shout out to to Hyundai. We uh we signed an agreement between MIT, University of Michigan um and Hyundai uh on um the future of of naval architecture, marine engineering. And so the idea here is to tap into um the expertise that the Koreans have um in their shipyards and at at Soul University and Soul's also national university is also assigning to this um to to sort of get after a major weakness we have in the US where there's only one university left in America one R1 university left in America that has undergrad through posttock in naval architecture marine engineering we so a lot of people think we don't have the blue collar workforce we don't have the white collar workforce we don't have the nav architecture exper engineers, ops research, the managers. So, you know, if you were to open a a shipyard in the US, there would also need to be um a lot of uh things done to bring your white collar workforce and your management over because we in America don't have that skill set anymore. So there's a whole bunch of things that are ongoing right now uh to try to to try to tackle the problem of what I said in the beginning is you know in order to make the business case we need to create a a conducive set of incentives for commercial ship building in America that then sort of uh allows competition and great advantage to naval ship building thereafter. Now I'm going to go to my friend in the in the front row and can you introduce yourself and state your affiliation? I will. Nadia, great panel. Thanks uh everybody. Vagamaradian from uh Defense and Aerospace Report. My question uh is to you Steve. I think almost everybody would welcome uh a notion of increasing American capacity, getting ships built out there faster. We understand that some things are exquisite like submarines. they're going to take a little bit longer, but but everything else we can move faster. The frustration I think that some people in the US uh existing industrial base have is we are where we are in part because of the United States Navy. Naval Sea Systems Command has a way of doing it. Uh Secretary Spencer reached out brought in Fin Kanti as the uh prime for the constellation class frigates and almost every one of their innovations has not been adopted for a whole variety of reasons. So I'm I'm not trying to make their case in this ultimately, but it was designed to innovate and change the system and instead the system completely changed the ship. It's now more expensive. It's going to be delivered late. What are the things the Navy can do to try to actually accelerate this process? Whether it's for existing yards because they feel remarkably straight jacketed that the Navy has a certain way of doing things. Some of them are predicated for good reasons that date back to the 1940s. But then again, there's plenty of stuff that you could do completely differently. So even if you brought Hyundai and its highly automated systems here to the United States, there might be a, you know, an O5 in Napsy who's going to go, well, that's just not how we do things. You're just going to have to go back and do it X, Y, or Z way. What's the Navy have to do to change this dynamic fundamentally? So, you know, I think uh you know, first of all, um the what the current secretary um has stated clearly um um since he's since he's um been in the position um is standardization and and no changes. In fact, we've granted Fenanterry flexibility uh instead of, you know, putting more changes and more constraints on them. Um we've actually or just keeping things as they are, he's we've actually given them more flexibility um to try to get that ship uh back on schedule and and and out on time. Um and he is looking at um internally and as you mentioned with NAVC the things that um have been put in place um over the years each one um with good intentions but they accumulate um and and make things um make things more complicated. You know a good example of uh of doing things quickly and on budget and on time in the federal government um and this is one of the reasons the secretary stood up the ship builders council. Um so we have a a new council that includes [clears throat] four departments and five you know it has DHS um coast guard it has commerce Noah it has transportation MARAD and DoD army and Navy the the five federal ship builders and ship maintainers um to come together to share best practices uh partially you know he stood that up because he was very impressed at the national security multi-m mission vessel um you know that was built up there the the second one was just uh uh rolled out and delivered to Mass Maritime uh the ships that Merat is building for the first time in I think 40 years for the um state maritime colleges. I mean that program um is on time and on budget. Uh and part of the reason is of course that mer does not have to you know meet a lot of super ownorous um requirements that really uh make things harder to build and and make the the price um um you know go up. So and there is also a differentiation in types of ships, right? um you know some of the some of the requirements need to be of course more stringent for combatants that have to do things that normal ships don't have to do and be survivable but um but then there's other ships of course um you know that that might have to not have to to meet those requirements. Um he's also called for innovation in the manufacturing process. So, you know, we we really focus a lot on innovation of like weapon systems, the newest gizmo gadget out there doing something. Um, and what we could really benefit a lot more from is actual innovation in how we build things. So, if we could build things that are not super innovative, but we need, but we build them in an innovative way where they're like on time and much less expensive and much much higher quality. Um, and so we put the call out to DIU and Naval X and all these other entities on how can we get more innovation in production and manufacturing. Um, and that doesn't always just have to occur overseas. That can also be homegrown here um, and be innovated here in the US because that's that's what we're known for. Um, so that's what I would say. Uh JP Hogan I write about politics. Two quick questions. I'm just wondering hearing about the ship capacity if we what would be the new concept for the Liberty ships for like maintaining supply chains in World War II. Are we is would supply chain ships be able to be outsourced? But more I'm curious with Korea be having a green city, are we closer to a green fleet? Do you have ships that are much more green? uh we with being able to put batteries and boats and uh computers, you should be able to run less on diesel, less on nuclear, even use the motion of the ship for hydro. I'm just wondering, are you bringing out modern propulsion that's more green? >> Uh we we do the echofriendly uh propulsion system for the commercial ships. uh we developed the uh methanol uh fuel engine and listen to the ammonia uh fuel engine as well. Uh but the for the uh military ship we still rely on the conventional uh diesel oil for the uh proportion system. uh we applying the uh some of the hybrid proportion uh that is not for the environmental uh friendly design but it's for the uh to have a more uh aligned uh operational uh profile. Uh we can have a small electric motor during the low speed which will uh eventually have a more efficiency uh for the propulsion system. Mike, I want to turn to you. Han was doing amazing work around the world. It's delivering tanks and artillery systems to the Middle East, Eastern Europe, AL, but also work in ships and aircraft. Um and it seems like it's generating value across sort of the the portfolio of capabilities um both in terms of de developing effective systems but also uh quick delivery timelines which is I think increasingly of interest to countries driven by the war in Ukraine or prospects of conflict with China. um a as you look at the portfolio uh how are you trying to ensure that that Hanwa here in the United States can innovate with the US military and have um I think approaches by which Hanoi in Korea and Hanwa here in the United States can sort of co-develop capabilities or at least adapt what you're working on globally to the unique circumstances here. Yeah, I I don't want this to be a commercial for Hanoa, but it this is a good example of of how things can get done. Um, with the K9 Thunder that the uh ambassador mentioned this morning, it's a it's a self-propelled tracked howitzer. It's been sold to 11 different nations. Each nation has a slightly different set of needs. So, you harmonizing requirements is really difficult. It's difficult to do in the United States alone. Um but what we've done is we've created a user group basically a user jury a buyer club where we come where we bring customers together to look at okay how can I improve the system in a certain way for a certain type of uh threat environment and sharing that information back hauling that back to Korea and cutting it into production into the base model. So for instance I'll just give a quick and easy one. uh the need for uh five operators in this system is is kind of a uh a standard feature of the system. However, that same need isn't the same in the US. It's four. And then how much automation can we cut into the system so we can bring the operator uh count down to three. I was at a USA this entire week and one of the big uh focus areas is survivability. Well, if you take the soldier out of the system itself, that's the ultimate in survivability. Uh we don't want to you we we don't want to necessarily take the thinking and creativity from the soldier from the system, but we do want to minimize um kind of the workload that a soldier has to has to undertake to be effective in terms of achieving a mission. So I I I think developing adaptive systems, you know, using modelbased systems engineering and design, everyone's doing it. Um how do you build that into the systems that when you you ship it and export it to the next customer, they have the sovereign capability to upgrade um modify and sustain through life that system. and then being able to bring those different customers together to help optimize uh what the system looks like for the next customer which will be the US uh army if I have my way with it. So anyway, that's that's what we're doing. Um, and it's it's it's co-development, it's uh cooperative development uh kind of in in in sync um so that we can create better systems that meet the needs of of our entire customer base and future uh uh prospective customers. >> Could you expound a bit more on this user group approach? Right. One approach would be a user group with only one country. You're soliciting feedback from the different army communities, Marine Corps, but also user groups across countries. And then you get to the problem that Rob mentioned of, well, everybody has a different opinion on it. >> Yeah, they do. And the next one's going to be in Finland. And the danger of getting all your customers together and even inviting prospects is that they're going, we're letting them behind the curtain. Okay, here's what's wrong. Here's what's not working right. Um, you know, what might be right for Finland might not be right uh for Estonia. Um, so those are some of the challenges that we're working on. We have a subset subgroup which you we have six NATO countries are buying this system. So there's some needs from in terms of interoperability that they're looking for that perhaps you know other uh other customers aren't. Um but this gives a forum a technical forum and an operator's forum um you know to be able to modify the system and really have their say uh in terms of what the the future technical technology roadmap looks like. And then it also emphasizes or it helps us um from an engineering perspective design in a degree of flexibility that we may not have had at the outset. Um so you know there there are discussions amongst engineers from different nations from operators from armies from different nations around how they want to use the system how it may not be meeting the needs and we can take that information back to our designers. So we can iterate and bring um you know a set of features and capabilities that they may not have purchased in the initial buy but now um you know would meet the needs of of what they have to do as their threat environment evolves and as their missions change. >> [music] [music]