Hi everyone, hello. I'm Choi Ji-ok of Univer-Jirok. Today's topic is. Universities with unique names. I'd like to introduce some universities with distinctive names. I've put together a list of four. Since this list is based on my own subjective opinion, please take it just as a reference. So, shall we take a look together? Yes, yes. Here is the first university. It's Sun Moon University. Sun Moon University is. A four-year private university located in Asan, Chungnam. When you look at the name, what do you think? Don't you think it's not that unique? I feel the same, thinking it's not very special. There are probably quite a few of you who think that way. But the background of how the name was created—the background, that is. If you look into that background, you might be a bit surprised. So, shall we examine the background of how the name Sun Moon University came to be? Sun Moon University. The founder is a man named Moon Sun-myung. He was born in North Korea in 1920 and passed away in South Korea in 2012. He lived a long life, didn't he? Now, you might know the religion he was associated with. It's the Unification Church. He was the leader who founded the Unification Church. You could say he was the original founder. While living his religious life, he had a big dream, which was to establish a university himself. Yes. Establishing a university was his big dream. So he put in a lot of effort to achieve that dream and finally founded a university. That university is Sun Moon University. I mentioned the name Moon Sun-myung earlier. What are the first two characters of the founder Moon Sun-myung? They are "Moon" and "Sun." Try flipping "Moon-Sun" around. Try reading it. It becomes "Sun-Moon." Yes. So, Sun Moon University is a name created by taking the first two characters of Moon Sun-myung and reversing them. I was actually, at first, so surprised when I learned this fact. Perhaps among all universities in the country, Sun Moon University might be the only one named based on the founder's own name. One thing that made this school an issue at one time—do you happen to know about the "Purity Department"? The official name is the Department of Theology and Purity. The Department of Theology and Purity. This exact department is at Sun Moon University. What kind of department is it? Simply put, you can see it as a department that studies the Unification Church. Four years ago, I visited this school in person. Yes. I visited the university, and excluding the Department of Theology, the Department of Purity, and the university museum itself, it was hard to find much religious influence. And if you look at the student and professor satisfaction levels at the school, it is actually quite high. They also say the welfare for students is decent, so please keep that in mind. Now, shall we move on to the second university? The second university is Kwangshin University. Kwangshin University is a four-year university located in Gwangju Metropolitan City. When you think of the word "Kwangshin," does it come across to you in a positive way? Or does it come across as having a negative meaning? I feel the same way. Most people will think of the negative meaning first rather than looking for a positive one. Usually, the term " Kwangshin" is used for words like " fanatic" or "zealot," combining the characters for "mad/crazy" and "believe ." Many people think of it as people who believe in a religion in a fanatical way. So I was also very surprised at first. When I saw the school name "Kwangshin University." Because it just so happened that this school was a Christian university. It was a mission school. So, it's a Christian-based university with the name "Kwangshin," so I thought, "Could it really mean that?" but fortunately, that wasn't the case. The "Kwangshin" in Kwangshin University uses the character for "shining" or "light." It uses the character for "light" and the character for "divinity" or "God." Here , "divinity" can be seen as God in Christianity, or Jesus. It is a university that signifies Jesus Christ, the shining Jesus Christ. That is Kwangshin University. Because Kwangshin University is a Christian school, the religious presence is quite strong. The second university was Kwangshin University. Now, shall we move on to the third university? The third university is Jesus University. Jesus University is...It is a four-year private university located in Jeonju, Jeonbuk. Actually, the name says it all . Yes. It is a university based on Christian values. It operates only two departments: the School of Nursing and the School of Social Welfare. You can practically consider it to be running only two departments. The Nursing Department at Jesus University...Is said to have quite a strong reputation in the Jeonbuk region. Please keep that in mind. Yes. I will now introduce the final, fourth university. The fourth university is Incheon Jaeneung University. Do your work by yourself. We are the capable, independent kids, na na. The song I just sang is one you probably heard a lot in TV commercials. If there are people who don't know it, I guess I'm just getting old. Incheon Jaeneung University is...It is a two to three-year vocational college located in Incheon, operated by the JEI Corporation foundation. The school was founded in 1970, but it hasn't used the name JEI University since then. Yes. It was renamed Incheon JEI University in 2011, so it has been operating under the name JEI University for seven years now, from 2011 to 2017. Judging only by the name and the foundation, you might think it's a school that primarily trains private tutors, but that's not the case. It is just a typical two to three-year vocational college. So, you can think of it as a vocational college that has departments in various fields. Incheon JEI University, that is. It has been receiving quite good marks in university evaluations as well. You can find the records it has consistently achieved by visiting the university website. It is still an ongoing process , so please keep that in mind. Now, what was it that I introduced to you today?